{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Speaker A: Hi. Throughout my life as the youngest in pan my parents were never really super wild but if it was one thing that they took it was for me to be talked about. So I grew up with three older brothers with both the name grad schools in architecture but one actually graduated last humanity with a degree of business management and so somewhere along the way I felt like it was my dream to what my parents wanted to I felt pressured into pursuing medicine even though deep down I didn't really soon maybe I should like the idea of some medicine this wasn't my own but as I reflected more I realized that maybe the reason I don't want to pursue medicine isn't because I'm a medic but because I'm afraid of what the biggest things in the past to become a doctor it takes at least 10 years from pre med to medical school residency to board exams almost 10 years of intense studying and that's still before actual appointment now my mom had me when she was 40 years old so that means if I were to pursue medicine she would already be near her pregnant but I would still be getting my treatment today I don't want to still be financially dependent on my parents at that stage I don't want that she carrying me and it should be kind of encouraged and we also work five years New York There are the stories we always hear about my residents busy birthdays, choosing hospitality over family events, being unable to be physically present while in challenges in their lives. Now there's not a secret that at some point in every career and I'm not saying the person in right now is as easy as partisan as the rest easy offense. In the previous job the workload is heavy but what makes it worth it for me is that knowing after four years I can already find a job I can be present but my parents were traditional in the public this is why they were fully against me. Thanks to the help of my brothers that I was able to convince my parents. So one day I finally asked my parents why did mon we're not because we wanted to have a stable community career even after you pass which is true without a doubt being in healthcare is one of the most stable in demand.\
Speaker B: Long\
Speaker A: said that I realized it was never about the I wanted but then let me realize something else. What is the point of building towards a stable future if I lose it? What is the point of earning more money as I risk the moment of happiness? Because money can always be earned again opportunities can return But I'm never going to be 18 again where I might have learned to go for guys and wonders lacking the small ordinary things in my lives because most of us move fast the Red Bull and yet most of us know because we are so busy chasing the next moments in our lives we need to start realizing that we don't need more we just need to be more present in the life that we already so what I think about like Ash, I wanted to be distilled with genes and echoes and I wanted to be filled with presents itself. And maybe that ash is not about how impressive your life looks so big. Maybe it's about how deep you love and how message you bring to the people. Because at the end of our lives people look on the calm owl's fear they'll remember if you were there.\
Speaker B: Thank you very much for that reminder about how indeed presence is more important than performance or perfection. As I may have told some of you before, I'm also an impactful advisor and I'm the homeroom advisor of the other two empty blocks, 31B and C. What are you getting? 31, right? 51. And as I was finishing reading their journals, I noticed that what Ann? When I was reading the journals it resonated a lot with what annals also sharing with us today. But more and more people, especially MD leaders, are beginning to see the importance of doing things outside of your academics, like joining courts and having fun with your friends and your lovemates. And I really hope that's true, that's sincere and so I encourage you to do the same. Please. College is not meant to be endured. It's meant to be enjoyed. But that's the problem. You always see that it's meant to be endured. It also meant to be. But a lot of the core memories that we safely have come from the moments we enjoy. Thank you. Thank you very much.\
Speaker A: I.\
Speaker B: Talk to each other. Go. When do you sign up for the\
Speaker C: 2pm for number why I'm signing up for the 2pm because I have law. We have a. Play.\
Speaker B: No,\
Speaker C: the play is after Is that the bonus points?\
Speaker B: Yeah,\
Speaker C: I got a zero out of what? That's like five points lost on each.\
Speaker B: Is there only story?\
Speaker C: I was absent for one. Were you sick? The first one was because it was the day after. I was so tired so I just got it and I like I legit? Yeah, I I I blinked and it was already 7:15. Yeah, like it is 5:40 at like 7:50. What time is your Filipinos\
Speaker B: if you didn't shower?\
Speaker C: No, it takes 30 minutes to get there.\
Speaker B: The quiz is start of class.\
Speaker C: There's no way. Smoke. Sorry.\
Speaker B: Did I also announce the last. The next three sets of reflection or the last set of.\
Speaker C: What is that?\
Speaker B: Sorry, did I already announce the next set of reflection? So just in case I haven't or you see yo.\
Speaker C: Oh my God.\
Speaker B: Okay, sorry. So. Kaikin development. Tell us what spirituality is.\
Speaker C: So spirituality is basically one's I guess, ability to be religious.\
Speaker B: It's an responsibility to be religious. What spirituality? Religion.\
Speaker C: Spirituality is. It's like your conscience.\
Speaker B: What's spirituality in relation to faith?\
Speaker C: Spirituality is like believing in the spiritual\
Speaker B: rather than the physical. So beyond. That was our topic. That's online class, right? And you're not concentrating. Oh no.\
Speaker C: Anyone?\
Speaker B: What spirituality?\
Speaker A: Spirituality is how you.\
Speaker B: Okay, what's same person you believe in something. Okay, we talked about four types of spirituality, meaning one and sacred. Okay, can you tell us about that? How is that supposed to be helpful towards. Yeah, because I can do that by brain now and not necessarily do that. Or. Okay, Everybody remember the reason why I asked us to do this is to teach you the importance of accountability and common prepared. Remember? And as I told you, this is not just a skill that you need in academy, but it's a skill that will really, really help you. Especially your professional life and your personal life. But in order for that to happen, you really have to develop that discipline. So you know that at the beginning of each class, whether it's a recitation or there is always going be to something I'm going to ask you to do prepare. Now that's the reason why I asked K a while ago if they approach because I think that's the key when it comes to preparing yourself for this specific assessment. Which by the way, if you remember, I asked if you want this needed and he said no. And I said okay, we'll make this for me. So I hope that just because it is inflated that you're not going to consider something. So everyone please, please, please, okay, I don't want to have. I don't want to have to beg. I don't think I should. And please know that in other contexts and with other teachers you will get screened at for lunch. So please difficulty. Get it better. This is the last time we're doing something like this. This is the last time that this is the kind of presentation we have and he wants.\
Speaker C: It's okay, gu. I wasn't even in the session. Oh, it's online. Because the whole day was also online. Do you guys have online?\
Speaker B: Like basically.\
Speaker C: I had one, I had one class, that was it. Yeah, I thought they were gonna have wait was on side.\
Speaker B: This is stupid. Yeah, Thanks. Before I continue, also, I. I just want to say that I'll be spending most of this class here seated because I'm safe. Right. I do have a bit of a sore throat. A lot of teachers though. But I think it would be good for me to conserve by any of the stages we have spirituality in the church. That's our course where we're now in the third module. After having gone through an anatomical sketch of the religious experience, we're now going to dive into what we're all here for to really understand what exactly when we say God. Which is why the title of this watching is Revelation Rebel God Communicating God Himself and us making sense of that communication Revelation. I think it's at this point, even if I know it is later than other ways that theology is taught, that we go back to why it's even called theology to live it. Because the word theology, as you would know, comes from two Latin words. Not Latin, but two Greek words, the key of which is the word theos. Theos, which we got, as you know, from other subjects we study, like biology or sociology or psychology. The logi part comes from the Greek word logos, which means study, talk, order or meaning. So the word logos is actually a very rich word in Greek, which refers to a meaningful discussion about a certain topic. So in this case, when we're talking about theology, the theo Logos, we're talking really about a study, Which therefore we can say that God really is the proper object of study in theology. God is the proper object of study. Now, you probably notice here that the word object is in quotation marks, because here's what I mean. God is an obvious the object of study in theology insofar as God is the focus of our discovery, that everything that we talk about in theologies, I mean if it's meaningfully theological, means it has something to do with God. But at the same time, God is also not an object. Because when you talk about an object, you're really referring to something that is literally right in front of you, something that you can define. So for example, if I come up with some study of shares shareology, so at least it's very clear to me that I'm only going to study things. But what's complicated about God is that we can't think with God precisely and say this, this, only this I'm going to study. Because when you're talking to a God, you're really talking about that ultimate reality. In a way, you're talking about the very Thing that Emphon causes every day. So in theology you can say that you aren't being talking about empty. Now allow me to offer this idea coming from St. Thomas Aquinas and for Thomas Aquinas he says that when it comes to the existence of God, the existence of God is not self evident. I'll say that again. The existence of God is not self evident. What that means is that we cannot obviously without any controversy, say that there is a God, right? Is there a God? That's the question. Well, that's disputed. It's controversial. Let me put it this way. Is there anyone here who denies the existence of error, airbud, Somebody who like how the hell do you breathe? Right. So no one here, I think would reasonably deny the existence of air. God's not like the air we breathe. It's not like it's controversial that there's air, but God's existence, that's controversial because there are some people who can reasonably say that there is no God and live their lives as if there is no God. You have a lot of reasonable atheists. You have people who profess to have faith but then act in an atheistic sort of manner. So going into this, here's one thing you have to remember that talking about God, controversial. So if that's the case, if this is controversial, where can we start this deep discussion on God? What I want to do for this module, and this is going to be the outline of the whole module, is that we're going to talk about God in three ways. First, we're going to talk about God from an experiential angle, paying attention to our impressions and images of God as we grow up. Then we're going to talk about God from a philosophical angle, trying to see how God is. It makes sense to have God just on the level of reason, without yet religion. And then finally, and most of the course would be spent doing this from a theological angle. So I'm going to start again by talking about God from an experiential. How can, shall I go?\
Speaker C: Are you a naturalist? You know what that means, naturalist. You only believe in the natural sciences. You believe everything is reasoned by science. Not everything. I believe in the science angle thing, so I don't want to be like\
Speaker B: so depressed all the time.\
Speaker C: Okay, okay, that's good. Also think about if you believe anything can be reasoned out with logic. That's what we mentioned.\
Speaker B: Only on looking for form and wonder,\
Speaker C: like there's no wonder there. You know, everything, too much knowledge, keep on going. But like doesn't Science. All those smart people are so interested. Isn't there a lot undiscovered in science? There's a lot not yet discovered. That's why. Cuz like imagine if you discover everything that what then anyways discover that. That's reductionism.\
Speaker B: Assuming that you think everything can be\
Speaker C: explained by science, then that would mean that you're reducing.\
Speaker B: All right, I want you to think about this. So again we're going to start by talking about God from an experiential. Here's a thought right here. So something to discuss. And I don't just mean this in a religious context, but in any context that you see this question relevant. The question is do you think that first impressions really last? Right. And can you think of a time where you had the first impression of someone and let's say you got to know them a lot more and yet somehow the first impression still style. Can you take a moment like that? Talk to each other again?\
Speaker C: Yeah, I think you get. You. You get the vibe. Did you get the vibe immediately from someone? Love at first sight. What was your first impression? Oh.\
Speaker B: No, I don't.\
Speaker C: What was your first impression of him? My first impression of him was like\
Speaker B: finally, I'm not the only one that can't speak Filipino. When I heard you speak. Alright, let me interview a number of you about each other. Al, I have a question. What was your first impression of Hannah with university? Heather. Heather. Oh my go. Can I name you Hannah from now on? I'm sorry, Heather. I'm sorry, go ahead. Yeah, Okay. Heather. I have to think for a bit. Heather. The opposite. What did you think about? Okay, safe space. Safe space. Who among the people in this block did you have a certain first impression with? Of. And as you got the rodent. Okay, so we will take this person. What changed about your impression? Noah? Okay, again my question here. Is anyone here in the room? Have you had a certain first impression of them? And as you got to know them it completely changed like a 180.\
Speaker C: I think a lot of it is just racism.\
Speaker B: That's a pretty example here. Like oh, you know, I thought this person was quiet. But then as I got the loaded they're like a persistent chatter, something like that. I thought you were smart. I thought you were smart.\
Speaker C: You know when you, you know when you assume that Chinese people. That's a good.\
Speaker B: Again, the change in impression doesn't have to be bad.\
Speaker C: A lot of it is bad.\
Speaker B: This is taking.\
Speaker C: Oh, just say something guy. This is a safe space. Your dignity will not get destroyed.\
Speaker B: How long is that. Anyone in this room that you have a certain impression of and in palace you got to know that it's different. For the most part, like most of our walk is written, that's fine.\
Speaker C: But I think for me, my first impression of beyond as a hero, cuz\
Speaker B: I was behind herself, so I thought she was fine.\
Speaker C: And then I look at her phone\
Speaker B: and then she's texting her friends the\
Speaker C: same way I texting.\
Speaker B: To DeAndre when we were on the Capture Store. And then. Now. Why did I ask you these questions? Because whether we realize it or not, our first contact with anybody always gives impressions. And think of that word impression, right? A synonym for that is the word image. Right? Image. That whenever, for example, I would meet Heather for the first time, I'll have to post Heather for the first time or for the first time or Kai for the first time. Maybe there are certain images in my head about what I think this person is, who I think this person is. Oh, this person speaks really straight English. This person is something like that. Or home. This person, not necessarily anyone interested or. Or oh, this person like always goes home at 5pm Maybe her parents are super strict or whatever, right? Or something like that. We often have these images now when relationships deepen, you'll notice that the images could either stay or fade. But one thing's for sure is that quite often in any relationship, we always operate on some image we have of a person, right? Maybe as you get closer to that person, you have a high resolution image of that person. You get a better sense of who they are and even the little details of their own life. Quite often when you meet a person for the first time, you still have a very blurry image. And that blurry image is often formed by our biases too. But still, in getting to know someone, it's very important for us to start with images. According to Dr. Chris Pritchett in his recent lecture, Healing Our Images of God and Ourselves, this is what he said about the images of God that we have. He says our cognitive beings are acceptable through reason, but our inner images are formed through experiences in deeper and more powerful ways from the messages we have received primarily in childhood, but even throughout our lives as well. Let me give you an example of this. If I asked one of you, Boris, can you define for me what a friend father is? I'm pretty sure that when I asked Boris that question, he will not give me a dictionary definition saying a father is a male parent. Most likely, when I say define what a father is, who will you think about? Right. When I ask you what a friend be, you probably will not give me the dictionary definition of this is a trusted compatriot. You would likely bring to your line first the images of your closest friends. So when you get that, you never get to know someone conceptually. First you get to know someone through their images. I repeat, we do not start with concepts because you do not know someone conceptually happened to be. Experience tells us that we get to know someone first through our images or our impressions of them. Now, as you're going to see here, Chris Grenchen talks about a certain problem that we have with our images of God. There's a problem. Take a look at this baby. Can you please read what he has to say? What we say we believe about God and there are images that we. Okay, what is he saying? There is a difference between our concept of God, the concepts that maybe we believe or we were told to believe, and what our real images of God are. And according to Pritchard, who you think God is, is based on your images, not your concepts. I'll say that again in case you missed it. Who you think God is, who God really is for you, is based on your images of God, not your concept. Think of it this way. Maybe if you studied in a religious school for a long time, you have been told that God is a loving father, right? And you've been told that time and time again, God is a loving father. But then what if your own experience of fatherhood isn't good? He has his big father. So how can you reconcile loving father, that whole concept of you with your actual image of a father that comes from your experience? There's a disconnect between our concepts and our images. And according to Pritchett, it's the image that we need to pay attention to because the images are more common school, age of. Because they really come from our experiences, especially childhood experiences. I remember in our house in Dipa, that's my mom's home now it's our big ancestral home, we have this large statue, not statue, large painting of the Sacred Heart of Jesus. I'm sure you see that. And it's the statue that Jesus is holding his heart like that, and his face is something like this. And my teachers and titas would always carry with ourselves, But Jesus is always watching. So there was a time I was a little kid and I was trying to experiment that when I was in that room. Sometimes you feel. One of the things that people, you know, that scripture always says is God is always watching. Some find that to be a comforting thought, but there are people who find that the liberal creepy. Are you serious? It's that God is surveilling every little thing I do. I might as well get life basics. See, it gets us today. What? Our images of God. Because who you think God is is not based on what you were taught in your life. It's based on how you experience God somehow in your life. For a very long time, I thought that God was scaring me because my Gaia told me so. Because whenever I go out to the park and then kumaga bina, the sun is about to set, I don't want to go home. My lion would say. That would be the nicer thing because the more racist she thinks she'd say. It.\
Speaker C: What did I tell you? Not to the extent of the. Okay, what's your image of God?\
Speaker B: Allow me to show you now four distorted images of God. I mean, there are many distorted images of God, but I want to just sum up four, because I think these images are widely held by people, even those who have been faithful to God for a very long time. After I show you these four images, I'll share with you mine, starting with this first. That a lot of people think that God is the strict enforcer. This is a God who makes rules for you to follow and is eager to punish you if you don't follow them. Makes rules for you and eager to punish when you disobey, like an Nnda force. Who he drives again, raise your hand. You know, one of the worst places for me to drive in are in two cities. It's the city of Pasi and it's in Manila. City of Manila. Because sometimes you would be driving along, let's say, Meralco Avenue, and then there are like hidden enforcers everywhere. Like there was this even one time I was driving there, it was at night and I was. It was one of those. Those Alamani moments where it was still green and then it was turning yellowish. But I was already had momentum. So I crossed gets good. And then all of a sudden, I swear this is what it looked like to me. The enforcer came out from the bushes. I thought I'd Power Ranger. And I'm like, what the hell does this guy want? It's crazy, you know? And then the worst part is how much? When he would say, how much, sir? And I don't advise. I do not advise this. This is what, what I did. I'll just tell you what I did. Around that time, I was doing my graduate studies in theology and then I had my Loyola School of Theology ID on my dashboard. And then I said, sir, You. Oh my God, of course I like my way out of a ticket. But at least I didn't contribute to her. I just like this image. Everybody emphasizes compliance, that this is an image that emphasizes compliance. I love you all your. If you follow me as I will recognize you only if you obey my commandments. Does God want us to. Does God want us to obey the commandments? Sure, but it's similar to how there are rules in a relationship. But the moment a relationship becomes all about the rules, it then becomes a burden. Did I tell you about that during our online class? That whole idea of somebody gets angry, your significant other gets angry at you, Your significant other gets angry at you just because you weren't able to do your date Wednesday date nights, just comply that it was good. I think that's not a very good image of God. Here's the second one. That if you don't have the strength that force your image, maybe you have a hard merit in it. Now this is a God who sets a high bar of moral and spiritual perfection for you to be sets a high bar of moral and spiritual perfection, but does not help. A while ago, Ann began her reflection by saying that her parents were not so hard on her, at least when it comes to raising. But this is the opposite, right? A parent? Think of your tiger parents. One would say. This one emphasizes conformity. Why? Because the harsh parent has this picture perfect performative image of you that you have to fit. And if you don't fit that picture perfect performative image, then you fall short. This feeling of God as a harsh parent is often un. With a lot of shame. Shame, shame, shame. The whole idea of I didn't measure up, believe you me. There are a lot of very religious people who still have this fear of God, a God who's ashamed of them because they're not perfect. Talk to each other.\
Speaker C: I think a lot of times people use religion. They use religion as a way to get people to do good things. So like, I mean, it's really how the church is, you know, in the way religion and politics, specifically laws, they're like hand in hand with. In the law. You can't kill someone. You'll be like banished if you kill someone.\
Speaker B: So.\
Speaker C: It's all social construct. Are you religious? You believe in the Bible?\
Speaker B: All of it.\
Speaker C: So you believe in slavery? What do you believe in slavery? It's in the Bible. Different times. God was good with slavery back then. He was.\
Speaker B: I mean, in the Old Testament. Didn't he kill people?\
Speaker C: Yeah, he killed people and condoned slavery, but he doesn't really do that anymore.\
Speaker B: So again, we can have these suppressions of God as a strict enforcer that emphasizes compliance and a harsh parent that emphasizes conformity. So a perfect picture, perfect performative. What to notice here is that these are two distorted images that negate the human person. They're negative images because in some sense they limit your humanity, they shrink it. But you're going to see in these next two images that these are images that now are positive image, distorted images. And by positive, I'm not distorted exercising the good. They're positive in the sense that instead of shrinking the human being, they over emphasize the human being. So starting with this third one, God has been enabling friend. Okay, it's the God who feeds Sir Delulu. He's cool. He's my body, right? This is a God who yeah, expects me to be good in some general sense, but he doesn't set any real standards for me to follow. God and I are cool. He just wants me to be good in some vague planned way. And everything that he asks me to do is just optional. Thou shalt not kill.\
Speaker A: Go.\
Speaker B: Okay, let's hear right. Thou shalt not kill. If you're in the mood. So if the strict enforcer emphasizes compliance and the harsh parent emphasizes conformity, the inability Friend emphasizes conformity, that you do not have to follow any real moral or spiritual standard because no matter what you do, God is going to permit everything that you do. Because our interpretation of God loving us is God permitting everything we do. But how is that a problem in case you're lost again? My question is how is it a problem when you think that love means forgetting everything thing that a person does? I have a friend who is super duper. What do you call that? Guilty pleasure. The thing that he consumes to reward himself at the end of a long week is guess what? Not alcohol. It's tim. Tamil Tim. For those of you who've been to Australia before, the digital incomes there in Australia are the equivalent of like 50 or 60 pesos. When they get to the Philippines it's 200. But if you buy it there, super mora. So if you go to Australia, like buy\
Speaker C: diabetic.\
Speaker B: Okay, so he eats in 10 every eat pero he disciplines himself too long in one sitting for me. And the thing about my friend is that he has a now five year old son. But this story happened when the son was like 3 years old. And then when the son saw my friend eating the tim tap. Daddy, daddy. And he had and after him you thank dance. So my friend was thinking I'll give him half a tin tag like this and give me a half one from there.\
Speaker C: Half of a half.\
Speaker B: You know what my friend does? Gives him one whole tim pal. What happened to the kid? One more. The diabetic to look better. You know, it puts the opposite of sugar, sugar crash. My friend had a slight moment of enabling there and what happened? Too much sugar caused the kid to cry. So see, be careful with the word enabled, right? Because it might seem like you're simply respecting a person decisions, but if you're allowing them to take a path that's not good, it could actually lead to their death. So this emphasizes comfort. Finally you have now what's called the distant puppeteer. Now this image is of God simply being this distant controller of the universe, someone who just controls the universe in some grants sense. You know, decides whether it's going to rain, if it's going to shine, who's going to decide, you know, when the next typhoon is going to hit. But that's it. God really doesn't care about human affairs. One old way of describing this is how the catechism would talk about. The catechism of the Catholic Church would talk about the watchmaker theory and the 15. You can Google that to a certain point, the watchmaker theory. Because remember especially when we were living in the time of analog watches, when a watchmaker creates a watch, the watch can operate completely on its own without somebody to turn it on or off. Digital watches in some sense are like that too. But the whole point being is people used to think that when God created the world, he left it alone for us to figure it out on our own. That God is not involved in human affairs. So what does that emphasize? It emphasizes complacency, right? So similar to the iniquity threat, this is a God who doesn't care about me. And so I don't really have to care about living a good life or being a moral person because I mean there is no God to adjudicate these kinds of matters anyway. So these are positive images insofar as they over emphasize the human being's freedom in a way that's not healthy. So again, the strict enforcer emphasizes conformity or compliance. The harsh parent emphasizes conformity, enabling, friend, compassion, comfort. The distant puppeteer emphasizes.\
Speaker C: The quad.\
Speaker B: You know what the.\
Speaker C: Joanna, do you remember what the three Cs were in Leeds like kind of forgotten character? Yes, I forget.\
Speaker B: Yeah, I think so. I mean if you put it in that grander scene. Yes. This whole idea that God is always on my side. So the view of another religion. If we're gonna shoot you in the head because you don't believe in our faith, well, fuck you because God's on our side. You know what I mean? It could be that sometimes it can be these behaviors like church. It's okay for me to let loose a little bit and do something bad because, you know, God hair tight. I could always just go to confession and, you know, it's like going to confessions, like having a haircut. Your hair's too long, then just cut it and then it grows too bad. So in that sense, there's no real moral or spiritual growth because you always think that God will never hold you to account so that you can become a better person. Now, people, let's take note of this. I'm not saying that God is always someone who's eager to value, but at the same time saying that God wants you to be better without necessarily punishing you or shaming you. I mean, even a while ago. I mean, sorry to bring this up, but when I ask you all to be mindful again of your notes so that you can do the recipe for. I mean, I don't think I have to scream at you, get angry and call you stupid for me to drive that boat. One of the things I've come to learn is that it's important for us to address behaviors without attacking. That's the point. And it's addressing behaviors. I think God's the same thing whenever he points out or whenever he points out a pray that there are things that we can do a little better so that we're not so stuck in less harsh ways. I think God wants us to that sort of thing. So he's not an elite friend in that sense. He's a loving friend. Because the point is that love isn't just this passive allowance of anything that a person does. You've seen that from your own life. You've seen that your own relationship. When you tell to tell your friends I love you. That's why I have to tell you that you're hurting people when you do this. I love you, so I have to be honest with you. Even if it is going anything else. Yeah, go ahead. I know there's something here. I think the part there that is of possible convention is the idea that God leaves us standing right now. God doesn't hover in the sense that God micromanage manages everything little thing you do. I think it is safe and maybe theologically sound to say that God gives enough space to be able to make certain decisions on our own. And even some of the most crucial decisions if God allows us to do that. Like for example, if the. If the decision you want to make is whether you're going to be married or you're going to enter the priesthood or the convent, that's a huge decision that you need to make. But even then God doesn't hover or God doesn't force you to make a decision. But somehow God guides us. That's why the whole idea of discernment is there. Because we discern by trying to pay attention to the movements in our heart and the movements in our lives are that we're able to see what's God telling me to do in this situation. And when God tells us. One things I've come to learn is that he's not very dictatorial. He guides and he does so in a firm way without having to be a dictatorial person. I told you I'd share with you my. For the longest time I always thought that God was sort of dead. Now we thought it was dead and then all of his time was gone. For the longest time I always thought that God was sort of like his coach. So if you ask me what my image of God is, coach, it's this firm coach who says, I want you to be better, Luki, so you have to fit this time and do this, I'll help you. But he's a coach. It took me an eight day retreat, another eight day retreat. That's the one that I went to at the beginning of his family. For the person who was guiding me in the retreat to realize that my image of God as a coach was actually the harsh parent of disguise. And how did she sense that? How did my guide, the sister who guide me, how did she send me that? Because whenever she would ask me about, she asked me this specific question. How do you feel whenever you don't meet God's expectations? Do you ever feel a sense of mercy or forgiveness? I told the sister no. I feel a lot of shame. And he's ashamed. Why? Because I have this image that God is constantly disappointed in me. And then this is where she pointed out, it seems to me that God is more like this team rather than the coach that we think God is. So see, go back to what I said about images and the feelings they elicit. Maybe you know, it's a distorted image if it elicits those kinds of death dealing life sucking emotions. But let's be more specific about it. Why are these images distorted? I have two answers for that. The first is it's their lack of balance. They overemphasize the faith and they project it unto God. One set of images emphasizes God being too strict, having incredibly high standards, always angry and disappointed, a God who struggles too strong. And the second set of images emphasizes a God that's too weak, that's too nice, that's too benign. Yung, walang, puentang friend. Yung friend. Chill, right? Didn't I say that in a previous class that one of the most overrated adjectives you can ever give a person is chill? So this is a God that's too chill. God. This one. No chill. This one. A whole lot of chills. So it's a lack of balance because we know from our experiences that, as I said, a loving person is someone who can be both gentle and firm too. Somebody who can tell you the right thing to do, but at the same time accept your process. It's their lack of talents. Let's emphasize on this other Next up, this coming intersection. You are likely going to take a class called Art App 10, Art Appreciation 10. So let's do a little bit of art appreciation. So I'm going to show you this painting. I don't know if you've seen this before. The painting is the Return of the Prodigal Son by Reverend Oil of canvas. Okay. Now, I think most, if not all of us here are already familiar with the prodigal son story. And it's at this point the story of the Bible where the prodigal son goes back to the father and the father embraces him. So see, this is the prodigal son kneeling before the father. This is the elder son looking at it with some consciousness, some consent only. Here's the father. Now, part of what you do in art appreciation is to pay attention to the details of paintings and to interpret what those details mean. So here's what we're going to do. When you look at this painting, I want you to focus on the hands. So let's zoom in. So when you look at the hands, what do you notice about the hands of the father? Pay attention to both and how they're related. How quick are you seeing?\
Speaker C: He's not grabbing onto them. It's gentle. He's very gentle about his touch. He's very. He's over his shoulder, so he's not really pushing over him. But not also too possessive. His uncle possessive, Would you say it's giving a hug? Almost A hug.\
Speaker B: So what do you notice about the hands? Yeah, go ahead.\
Speaker C: It's like they're the palms. The hands in general are. Are fully on the person's back. But they're not forceful. They're just resting there. Open but not grabbing.\
Speaker B: Sure. They're not forceful for purpose. Do you think that the pressure on which the hands are on the shoulder is the same?\
Speaker C: It seems like there's more on the natural.\
Speaker B: This one or this free? It's this one. For this one. That. Well, How. What are your interpretations? Right? It's a caress. Okay, eat that too. But at least go ahead. Reverend masterfully paints it in this matter. Do you notice? Notice that the hand here tends to have fingers that are longer and more slender. Right? Because these seem to resemble the hands of a woman. The hand of a woman, Right. When you look at this other hand, the fingers are a little stubbier and shorter. They're almost asymmetrical. But you know that. That's why I was asking Kaiwaluaka. For all the pressure, it seems that this hand is more firm. Right? So, Kobe. Sorry. If you don't mind. If you'll allow me to demonstrate. It's like this. One hand's like this firm kind of holding down the shoulder while the other is resting. Like that. Almost in a caress. But one holds you and another caresses you or reassured you notice that? Because I think it's that particular image that shows that balance of tenderness and firmness that the tenderness and firmness of God make for a singular embrace of God. That God loves me, so he's firm with me. He wants me to be better. But he's also attentive to my process. That's why he's tender. God is center with me. Because God, you know, assures me that I'm doing well. God is patient with me. But at the same time, God does want me to grow, to become a better person. I think you can take this and use that as a way to assess the way that you truly love the people in your life. Are you both tender and firm with temperature? Sometimes there will be certain situations. Listen, about this important. There are situations where you have to be more tender than firm, right? There are certain situations where you have to be more perfect and tender. So it's like the balance isn't like a perfect 50, 50. Depending on the situation, you have to be more one than the other. But the whole point is that you have hope. Somehow we make themselves. Now here's the second reason why these images are destroyed. Because they project Human universe. You notice that these images display the worst of humanity rather than the best that we can be. And my thinking is that if we were created in the image and like this of God, that we, the best of humanity comes. I think we will re resemble the creative and relating God. But whenever we become very self referential, self conserved, it then becomes ego. It's not a good sense of the self, it's ego. Right. You see, a lot of these things are really just very focused on itself and not one that moves outwardly. People have used God as an instrument to inflame their egos, avoid their uncertainties and control those around them. Especially in leaders of certain cults or cock like groups. This is how you can tell if it's a call when you know that when that person creates this complete. You have to completely depend on them and they do not respect your. So you ever notice that a lot of reports on culture, the ones that separate you from your family, Right. They bind your freedom so that you're completely at their mercy. Yes, God wants us to depend on him, that's true. But God wants us to depend on him in the context of our own freedom and in the context of the largeness of our own lives. Right? But he. If it's about control, what's about. And you know, that's the reality that those who we thought were good, like those in religions, have hurt us before.\
Speaker C: You know what I mean?\
Speaker B: And I think that's the challenge that comes with every distorted image of God that maybe support that the images of God I showed you, I've just put projections of broken people rather than the image of the living man. Be careful with how God is imaged in our minds and hearts. Because who you think is God might really just be your very strict Lola or your uncaring father, just projected as some sort of deity. Am I making sense? This is how it.\
Speaker C: The great God.\
Speaker A: That's great.\
Speaker C: Yo, I'll message you. Huh? Oh yeah. For the. The thing, the help. You're not a distant God. There's a balance. Thank you. I believe. Look, I always think that. Oh, wait, that's actually.}