{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Speaker A: So again, let's say Alec, your Exam is at 10:30. Have to be thereby. And Heather, if our exam. If your Exam is at 6:27, you have to be there by. Please make sure you're there 20 minutes before your time then don't forget we will return to class after the midterms on March 19th, Thursday I'll give a special birthday lecture. Growing up and navigating for local. You can bring in sit ins as well. I also have a special announcement on that. And finally on the advisory marks which are going to be released next week. The basis of your advisory marks would be the average of your three quizzes only. Your midterm exam grade would be released on canvas separately. So please do not panic. I wish that I could include the midterms already in the advisory marks, but we can't move the deadlines anymore. So we'll just have to settle for the average of your three. Reminds me. Allow me to return.\
Speaker B: What you get.\
Speaker A: It. 20% divided by seven points. We have three. We're going to leave half. That was the seventh. That was like participation. Yeah, or you move to the one after March 19th. People, it's midterm season, so no recitations to each other.\
Speaker B: Oh, what,\
Speaker A: what, what do.\
Speaker B: It's out of 12, right? And then you got 2.5, 2.5, 2.5,. 2 0, 375.\
Speaker A: And then. All right everyone. So again, don't thank so much for the advisory grades. Remember your advisory grades are not final. They can change. Change and get improved. The most that your advisory grades will reflect is 12% of your quiz. 12%. Not a lot. Okay. And don't forget there are the perfect attendance incentives. And there is a perfect attendance incentive for the quizzes. I will say that only on the last day. Only on the last day. Revelation. Faith everybody. Where we are currently at this point where we're discussing that God is not a being. By being we mean that God is not an existing object in the universe that occupies time and space. So God in a certain sense, well, every sense of the word is not like a chair, not like myself, not like anything that occupies any point in time and space in the universe. Unlike the Greek gods, of course, who are representations of the volatility of the universe. That's why Bullivant makes clear in the reading that the most true God transcends natural abilities and does not require a beast. So which leads us now to this simple question. Does God exist? And the answer is you have to properly nuances. You have to clarify how in what sense does God not exist? And in what sense does God exist? So atheists are right in saying that God does not exist because there's no evidence of God. So that is correct. It's not as if you can pick up God's DNA or God's whatever nose here and then confirm that God exists. But remember that the problem here is that they often refer to to God as just one more being, small letter B in the universe. As you're going to see later on, that God doesn't even belong to the genus of being. Right. If you remember your taxonomy and biology, God doesn't belong to a category, a genus or a species. Strangely enough, not even in the genus of being. Like existing things in the world. God is not even the greatest of existing things or the greatest of all beings. Because if you say that God is the greatest of all beings, he's still in the category of student or being, rather. I said student because I was about to illustrate this analogy. If, let's say, for example, we say that Boris is the greatest student in block 31E. That's amazing. That's wonderful. That's great. But in saying that, that means that Boris is part of that category of student. God isn't even in the category of existing things. So we will see that indeed God exists, but not as one being among many. God doesn't belong to a category. So if that's the case, then how can we explain how God exists? Or how can we articulate the principle of God's own existence? You're going to see in a short one, so again, God exists, but not as one being among many beings. How then do we explain this existence in two ways? So first you're going to see that God enables existence to take place without being a being. I know that doesn't sound very nice, but without being a being. And we're going to see events also that God is both beyond and within our experience. So that's what I'm going to to talk about very briefly. Talk to each other. Sam, I will pass in your statements. I will go a little more abstract here, but just for a bit. I hope something you'll still be able to understand. Starting with the first, that God enables existence to take place without being in the category or the genus of being or existing. So allow me to introduce a little bit of classical Greek philosophy through Aristotle. This time, according to Aristotle, in order for you to know something. Yes, go ahead. That's Socrates. But in order for you to know something, says Aristotle, you have to be able to identify its four causes. And what precisely are these causes? I'll go through them very briefly. The first is you have to know its material cost. So take for example, the statue. When you talk about the material cost of something, you're referring to or you're answering the question, what is it made of? In this case it's stone. In the case of that chair, it's rock. In the case of Ann, it's guts and blood and things like that, right? Whatever it is that creates or whatever is the raw material that enables something to be Material cause, simple. Second, formal cause, which answers the question, how is it this arranged? Because of course, you can arrange a rock into a bench, you can arrange a rock into a wall, but in this particular case, you are arranging a rock into a sculpture, right? So what makes a sculpture? What it is, what is its form that enables you to take the material and make it unique or rather distinct from a statue, a bench, or whatever it is you can make from around material cost, formal cost. Third, you have the efficient cost, which talks about or answers the question what or who made this object? In this case, it's the sculptor who took the rock, the material cost, and formed it into a statue. Formal cause. And then finally you have what's called the final cost, which answers the question, what is its purpose? Or what is the telos of this statue? Later on, as you study ethics for moral philosophy, that will be a very important point. What is the telos or the purpose of the human being? But in this case, what's the purpose or the telos of a statue? It's to perhaps represent a person, to memorialize an event or whatever. Material cause, formal cause, sufficient cause, final cost. Easy enough to remember, right? But I want to focus especially here on number three, the efficient cause. Now, don't forget this principle, everybody, that everything, every being has an efficient cause or a source from which it can account for its existence. So, like that statue, the statue was made by the sculptor, but who made the sculptor? Please don't say God right away. Who made the sculptor?\
Speaker B: His mom,\
Speaker A: Just the mom, the mom and the father, the mom and the dad. They did, you know what. And then eventually that sculptor came out. And how were they formed? How were the parents in the sculpt, their grandparents, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And then at a certain point, you can even go as far back as, you know, before they were even human beings, there was Homo erectus, there was also blah, blah, blah, blah. And then you can talk about other single cell organisms all the way to the end, right? So every being has an efficient cause. But get this. For Aristotle, you cannot go and create an entire chain of causes ad infinitum, like, all the way. At some point, you need to have a first cause. All things must have emerged from a first cause that itself has no cause. Or to put it in a rather clunky phase, there has to be an uncaused first cause. Because the moment you ask yourself, oh, what caused the first cause, it makes no sense, because it's the first cause, meaning it can account for its own existence. Its existence did not have to rely on a power prior to it. For Aristotle, this first cause, whatever that might be, really is in and of itself existing. But Aristotle is not a Christian. However, Aristotle's philosophy was then taken up by this guy of whom UST was named St. Paulus Aquinas, who took Aristotle's philosophy, and mind you, that was cutting edge at the time to even use Greek philosophy to explain Christian theology. So Thomas Aquinas took this and said that this first cause that we're referring to as the very thing that enables this entire chain of causes to be, that's what we call God. That is God. So the way that Aquinas puts it is that God is ipsum esse, subsistence, the very act of being itself. Now, do you notice this, compared to the first time you saw the word being, what do you notice now that being is capitalized? Because I want to emphasize here, everybody, that being in this context is now a verb. What again, is the Latin word for being? Small letter d. It's ends. So here we are not referring to ends. We're not referring to a thing in the universe. By the way, if you want to put it in terms of English grammar, ends is a noun, but an essay is a verb, right? It's the act of being. Because the focus of minus existence is not a passive state, it's active. Right? Let me make this further distinction. Am I making sense? Are you solid solving? Let me make this further distinction. So the two words that you have to remember in understanding St. Thomas metaphysics, the word is essence, and the word is existence. Essence refers to what makes something what it is, is, if you want to put it this way, the whatness of a thing. Go back to what I said earlier about formal cause. You can form that word again, a rock into a sculpture, a chair, a wall, or whatever. But what makes a sculpture different from a wall and different from a chair is its whatness. A sculpture's whatness is different from the whatness of a Wall. Am I making sense? Because they're different objects, they have different essences. Mr. Luki. Good. Existence, however, refers to. To the act of being present or the act of a being being present. The act of a being being present. So see, the fact that Eve exists here at this point on that space means that we can clearly see Eve's existence. So if this is whatness, this refers to that, right? Existence refers to how an object manifests itself into the universe. So what's interesting about God for Thomas Aquinas, what's interesting is that for God, for Thomas Aquinas, God's existence, or God's essence is existence. I repeat, God's essence is existence. And why is that crucial? Because, remember, when you talk about the essence of something, you say what it is and you say what it is not. I repeat, when you talk about the essence of something, you say what it is this. And you say, well, at this time. So if, for instance, this chair is formed as a chair, if this is the essence of a chair, it's not the table, right? If the essence of J is, whatever this is, J exists as Jesus. And because J exists as J, J can exist as Heather or cj, because that's defined. But when you say that God's, that the essence of something is existence, you're not limited to anything. I repeat, when you see that the essence of something is existence itself, that's unlimited. You see, for Aquinas, God is the very act of being itself. Where God's essence is to exist, to simply be. Talk to each other first. Go.\
Speaker B: So basically, God didn't know yet. The fact that this chair is made. No, it's because someone created the chair which was created by their parents, which is created by doctors, created by first human. We just treated my leg.\
Speaker A: What was there before?\
Speaker B: Well, scientists would say bing dong thing,\
Speaker A: but what caused the bing dang? Even in physics.\
Speaker B: I actually asked my friends\
Speaker A: what happened\
Speaker B: before the Dark Age. Just to clarify, just because this table exists is because God exists?\
Speaker A: I mean, in the most alternate sense, yes, but not directly. For example, the reason why that table exists. Yeah, I mean, you can say in the grandest possible sense is that because God exists and God enables the existence of everything. But of course, I mean, immediately historically, the table existed as arbitrary and it\
Speaker B: can show like the connection between the naturalist and like the philosophical essence of everything. So like, it doesn't really fully explain like what happened before the Big Bang. But we can sort of like estimate that there was a first cause to the Big Bang.\
Speaker A: Sure, whatever that Is. I mean, do some scientists make a parallel to the Big Bang and the first cause? Maybe. But even then, right? I mean, we're still talking about what caused the Big Bang and whatever that might be. That's what we mean philosophically by what the first causes. Anything else? Yes. Okay, let's put it this way. Everything exists as something, right? Eve exists as a woman who's tanking Able, who's 19, Filipina, eating something, anatomy and whatever. Now, because she is all of these things, Eve cannot be a Bangladeshi man who is currently doing cartwheels on top of a top. On a top rope, right? At least not now. Right? So we all exist as something. And when you exist as something, there's a scope to that and there's a limit to that. So what are the scope. What's the scope of Eve being Eve? You can describe Eve in a million different ways. But because you described Eve in this certain way, you can also describe her in another certain way. She exists as this, but not as that. There you go. But see, what makes God unique, what makes God sui generis, the only one of his kind, is that God's essence is not in any sort of way limited. Right? Think about it. Remember what I said? Essence is both has a scope and a limit. Essence has both a scope and a living. But what makes God unique? Because God is pure existence. God's nature is to simply exist. God can't really have a limit. God doesn't exist us. God just exists. So I think that's crucial. God doesn't exist us something. God exists.\
Speaker C: Is there another way to define essence? Because when you said Jake's essence, you said Jake's. Whatever this is. So is there like a way?\
Speaker A: I can't think of any right now. I mean, essence for you. What, what I mean, so when you say I did, or maybe not purposeful J or point, it's more like when you talk about. When you answer the question, what is J? What's your answer to it right now, when you talk about J, remember you're dealing with the. The coming together of many different kinds of categories. So for example, if the first category is J is Filipino, I mean, there are how many Filipinos now? 100 billion. If you say J is male, I mean, how many males are there? If you say J is Atenian, how many Athenians are there? But see, when you put together all of these categories, from the very, very large spaced out genome and species all the way right down to very particular experiences, all of that coming together is J. You get What I mean, so the most we can come from this essence, what makes JJ. Right? So see, that was why I began this class with a thought that God can't be categorized or materialized because categorization begins.\
Speaker B: Right?\
Speaker A: That's why when you think about it, we as individuals are both unique and not unique at the same time. Not unique in the sense that all of us here are part of certain categories, species, genus, whatever that other people share. But you can see that when you put all of these different things together, while you can draw some similarities, we are ultimately still unique. So at the end of Jay's life, whenever that might be, not soon, hopefully, there will be no other K. There might be another person, namely, but not that kind of thing. Anything else. Okay, question. Why is this important to assert? This is important to assert because this emphasizes God's non competitive nature. God's non competitive nature. You see, beings will tend to clash with each other. When one being asserts its power over the other, the weaker being is diminished, while the stronger being is enhanced competitive being. Just remember one of the most important principles in physics, that no two things can occupy the same space at the same time. So for instance, if, let's say I want to occupy Boris seat, we can do this the nice way or we can do this the hard way. The nice way is I can ask Boris, would you be so kind as to allow me to step your chair? Right. Do that. And then he, if he's a decent man, he would do that. He would sit or I could be violent and then grab him as a. Sorry because I kept in J a while ago because you know, that's not appropriate. But see, I cannot. I. Even if, let's say I do sit on Boris, I'm not occupying the point. The point. I'm not occupying the same space. I'm not occupying the same space more than you did. So at some point our being is going to clash with the other. But the thing about God is when God asserts God's power, being isn't diminished. Being flourishes. Creation takes place. And that's why that's one thing we always have to emphasize, is that God's power isn't a threat to humanity. Of course existentialist philosophers will think differently, that the stronger God is, the weaker humanity will be. But that is if you still have an egoistic view of God. If you think that God is simply a projection of the worst of humanity, talk to each other. Is it here. That God is both beyond and within our experience? And here we now go to St. Augustine, St. Augustine presents a certain tension in the way we ought to understand God. That God is, for Augustine, both transcendental and immanent. And that's what makes Christianity quite unique. Because for many religions it's either or either God's transcendent or God is imminent. What do you mean transcendent? Transcendent means beyond our experience, outside of our categories, outside of our perception. God is completely other. For Muslims, for example, they really emphasize that about Allah and even Mohammed, because do you ever notice how for Muslims in Islam, God is never depicted, There is no image of God in art, because they really want to uphold how God is completely outside of experience. Even for, let's say, for the Jews. For the Jewish people, you couldn't even say God's name, Yahweh, which a lot of Christians do say. For Jews, you can't say the full name of God. It's either you just say Yah or you say Elohim, which means Lord. Right? So you don't see God, Yah or Elohim, because that's the reverence that they have over God. Because see, the moment you name something, then you're able to name it what you name, you're able to tame it, right? And I use that saying when I talk about addiction. But anyway, so see, when you name something, you're able to have some sort of control. It's these religious traditions that super emphasize God's otherness. Christianity does that too. Of course, whenever we talk about God, we are talking about someone who's completely outside of our understanding. And yet for Augustine, God is also quite imminent, very much within our experience. Now there are certain religions that only focus on God's immanence. So think of paganism, that God really is just. However this nature behaves, there will be some who even see that when you put together every existing thing, the sum total of every existing thing, that really is God, they call that pantheism. See, God is all things together, summed up, imminent, no sense of transcendence. Now, of course for Christians, God is immanent. That's why we even talk about the Incarnation. The Christian claim that God enters the human experience and becomes also human emphasizes the Christian view of God's imminence. But that's the thing extension. God is both outside and somehow within our experience too. How can that be? Here's a crude analogy, and I must say it's a crude analogy. Do you know off the top of your head who the first Filipino national artist is? Sorry, yeah. So the first Filipino national artist is Fernando Amorzo, you may have seen at least copies or facsimiles of his paintings like this. Amorsola is known for painting very romantic rural scenes. Okay, I'm sure in your lawless house you have something like this. Now, everyone who here has ever seen Fernando Amorsola in real life, here in this room, In a previous life. You know, maybe Boris believes in reincarnation. In a previous life, Boris was a cockroach. What's the worst thing you can reincarnate as though grief.\
Speaker B: Your defense is wearing?\
Speaker A: None of us here have ever had direct experience people. None of us here have had a direct experience of Fernando Amazon. No one here was born in between his lifetime. Yes, not even me. But somehow, when you look at an Upper Swallow painting, you look at the way that the brushes are, the way that he strokes his brushes, the colors that he uses, the way that he uses the interplay of shadow and light. Somehow you feel the presence of the artist through what the artist means. Now, within my experience. But somehow, also within my experience. It's a tantrum. Thank you. Or it's just a question in general. Alex, go ahead.\
Speaker B: If God doesn't have an essence or existence, how are we made in his life?\
Speaker A: No, I didn't see that God has no existence or no essence. What I did say is that God's essence is existence. Yes. It's not. It's not limited.\
Speaker B: So how is it that we're kind of based on this likeness?\
Speaker A: Okay, I will say more about that in module four, but let me at least give you a preview. And the preview is this. Please don't take that literally. As if, for example, God was bored one day and he's like. And then he goes, my photocopy machine. Have you ever tried that in photocopying your face? Some people have. And then, yeah, photocopiers. And the little photocopies I have and the little photocopies that you have are. The human beings don't see it that way. It's not as if God was the templated designer for human beings. Not in a literal sense, but in a spiritual sense. My way of articulating it is this. That being created in God's image means we are able to create and relate like God. To create and relate like God. We're able to create things, for instance, right? We're able to create music. We're able to create balance accounting sheets or whatever. We're able to make things. And we're also able to bring people together. Because the way that we understand God in Genesis is that Precisely this. God is creative, and religion and human beings have that special capacity to do that.\
Speaker B: If Jesus is God in the flesh, then why in Christianity they gave Jesus Christ like an image for us to look at or to like believe in,\
Speaker A: because precise of that belief that God is a mirror. See, what makes Jesus unique is that. Or what makes Christianity unique in that sense or compared to its Abrahamic neighbors, is that Christianity claims that God can be seen, can be touched, can be imaged because God enters the human condition and therefore could be depicted. Not because we were able to control God so we can depict him, but God in his graciousness emphasize the human condition so we can become more accessible. For those who attended the makeup class last night, that was exactly my point. That God enables the mystery of his own person to be accessible. That's why he prays. That's why St. Paul says that God that Jesus is the image of the invisible God. Every religion knows that God is invisible, but in God's graciousness, he enters the human condition to be invisible and accessible.\
Speaker B: Does that mean that by extension, when we receive Jesus body as communion bread, that also counts as immanent?\
Speaker A: Yeah, very much so. Very much so. To use the more proper ethical language, you become configured to Christ, you become what you receive. Even Augustine says that. That's why we call it communion and not consumption. Right. Communion, not consumption. Communion means by receiving Christ, I become closer to him, and by becoming closer to Him, I become more configured to Him. I am therefore able to have the strength to create and relate as he would. Yeah, go ahead.\
Speaker C: I just want to clarify. Like, transcendent, because you said that medium isn't transcendent, but it's like the sum of everything in the world, right?\
Speaker A: Yeah.\
Speaker C: Let's say, like, if transcendent is something the other experience. And like the Bangladeshi man is like beyond.\
Speaker A: I mean, the Bangladeshi man is not outside of our experience. He's outside of our immediate experience, the one that you're not. He's out of our immediate experience, meaning to say he's not in the same room that we are in. But in principle, if you have enough money to go to Bangladesh, you can go and see this person, and that person then becomes part of your immediate historical experience. But when you're talking about transcendence, you're talking about something that is completely outside of your experience. And it can never be in principle at least part of your experience. Here's how Augustine puts it, Everyone that God is for him interior in timo meios et superior. Superior. He's More inward than my innermost self and higher than my highest thought, higher than the highest thing that I can ever perceive. And Augustine came to this articulation through his own search for God. Augustine sees that God is not within his immediate realm of experience. God in many ways is still mysterious. God is elusive. God can't be categorized. Augustine sees that. And yet somehow when he pays attention to his life and he saw how it all comes together and he sees the very things that drive him as a person, he knows that there is something outside of him that's driving him to the conversion, that he eventually God is that tension. Yes. Just like every other religion, God is not in my immediate experience. And yet why aren't we able to pray and say things like, I feel the Lord is leading me to do this, that I have profound experiences of the sacred? You know, this may not be really easy to understand at the moment, but the next thing that Augustine says also serves as a comfort. He says, see, Comprehendis non est Deus. If you understand, if you can categorize, if you can pin down, if you can define, maybe it's not God. Maybe it's just a sophisticated image of God, but an image nonetheless. But remember what we said last night. For those of you in the makeup,\
Speaker B: you see the Buddha industry and you\
Speaker A: see the Buddha industry killing it, right? What God? The images are helpful for us, but they don't really say anything accurate, fully accurate about God. The images we have are just our ways of trying to make sense of this great mystery. So if we claim to understand, maybe it's not really God. So what? That's the goal of theology. Perhaps it's not to understand. To understand, remember, means that you're able to grasp something within the confines of what you know. Maybe theology isn't about making sure it all fits in my head. I'll say that again. Maybe theology isn't about trying to make sure everything fits in my head because that then becomes absolute certainty. We're going down to module. But wonder isn't about trying to fit. But it's not about trying to fit things in your head. But wonder is about opening your mind rather than making the universe fit your mind. You see the difference. So perhaps everyone, the point of here is not to understand God, but it's to misunderstand God. Yes, I think that's what theology does. It clarifies for us what exactly we mean by God, only to see that God is far more, far greater than anything we could ever come upon. The which, Okay,\
Speaker B: but like, to understand, you need to understand, to misunderstand instead of understanding.\
Speaker A: Okay folks, here is what I want\
Speaker B: you all to understand.\
Speaker A: I want you to talk to each other for a bit of a long time. Just make it five minutes, look through your notes from the very beginning and ask me anything. Go. Five minutes, look at your notes, highlight what you don't understand or highlight something you want me to emphasize more about and then ask. Build that on the topic because we're about to hit the middler. So this is the type of.\
Speaker B: Adoptionism.\
Speaker A: Look your notes as in from the very beginning, talk to each other if something's unclear.\
Speaker B: Wait, so like all of these beliefs, ideologies, these rules, doctrines, they're just for us to misunderstand God?\
Speaker A: To misunderstand them less.\
Speaker B: Oh, sorry, yeah. Misunderstandable. So fully, these can all be speculated. Not fully real. But in the borderline of speculating. The whole not knowing is okay because essentially we're accepting that we can't know everything, but instead we're just getting rid of the misconceptions so that what we, we do know is correct. Yeah, problem versus mystery, right?\
Speaker A: Yeah.\
Speaker B: Problem is trying to understand the mystery. It's trying to know more about. And like we have these images of God where it actually might be more wrong about God. Or you're misunderstanding, you're misunderstanding like the strict enforcement. What are you gonna ask. As we're reducing it to an image? Yeah, that's what I'm gonna ask about. Wonder using fresh eyes to see the world.\
Speaker A: Humility of being truthful. Humans are soil.\
Speaker B: Metanoia. Wait, does metanoia conflict with\
Speaker A: perspective?\
Speaker B: Where you like change your perspective? Does that conflict with the wrong perspectives? Cuz what if your perspective might be. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Is all of our bibles absolute things? Cuz they're following a set of rigid ideologies. What our point is to be free flowing, Right? So does that, so does the Bible actually makes us. Does the Bible make us misunderstand God? It's another thing I don't know. Okay, this was the midterm, what would we say? I believe the Bible was just tool for us to actually bring out our own ideas. But not to the point where we will create something like Shila ism, you know, Sheila ism. Not to the point where we have our own fake grounded beliefs, but rather be independent moral, good morals.\
Speaker A: Of course. Okay, yeah, go ahead.\
Speaker B: Is having an image of God an example of reductionism?\
Speaker A: Not necessarily because we are tangible beings or we look at things in terms of images. Images can be. Images can be helpful. For us so that it deepens our relationship with God. So see, because for Christians God is not simply a concept, but a person. It's important to have that relationship. And with any relationship, images are unavoidable. I mean, I don't know who among you have ever experienced being in a long distance relationship, but I'm sure even that's become, I mean that is clear, right? I don't see the person every day. That person is not part of my daily immediate experience. So having an image will be helpful. It becomes reductionistic if we reduce God to our images and that image then becomes an idol. It's the God we create rather than theology.\
Speaker B: What do you call it? The false images.\
Speaker A: That's right, yeah, got it.\
Speaker B: So like our beliefs, our ideologies, the Bible, the doctrines, these are all for us to misunderstand God less in a sense where these things are speculation or like, to a point, like to a certain point where it can or can't be real.\
Speaker A: It's not that it can't. But remember that doctrines and beliefs are attempts at articulating a mystery. Right. God reveals. And remember, I don't know if you were, you were able to see the make a class already, but the whole point of that class was to talk about how God communicates truths to us that we cannot access ourselves. But the problem is not on God's side, but on ours. It's on us trying to make sense of God's revelation and doctrine beliefs. The things we articulate are our attempts at trying to make sense of God. So it's not in a sense pure speculation, as if we have no basis. But let's say that these are imperfect in which we try to appreciate and comprehend, even if not fully. A brief history. Sorry again.\
Speaker B: And then Elise, also to go back to Metanoia, which is the change in perspective.\
Speaker A: Yes.\
Speaker B: At what point is this change bad? Because we have to follow these set of rules. But of course this course teaches us to think outside the box, to think more broadly. So like, is there like a limit to here?\
Speaker A: It's like this Jello, Remember what we talked about? Spiritual but not beliefs. One can say, you know, I can be completely, I want to be completely independent on my search for God. And it means perhaps there are things that you can only learn about God as an individual and there is truly an individual dimension to the growth of spirituality. But to say that you don't need any structure, you don't need any community, you don't need any real tangible basis for knowing that. Right. That can Also be excessive, because if we're going to go back to wander, remember the metanoia here is an over from. It's moving from an over reliance to an empirical view of the world where everything has to be measured and clear to an openness to mystery. Right? But to shift to an openness to mystery does not mean that I'm never going to the of the world material or I'm never going to use legitimate structures of knowledge. It just means opening them up. It's not throwing them away. It's just opening their scope\
Speaker C: in experiencing God.\
Speaker A: What does it mean when it's like there's no God in me? Does that mean there's no God in. There's no God in me? Does that mean like there's no God in any motherfucker? Sorry, what do you mean by there's no God in me? I. There's no God in me. Okay, yeah, sorry. Can you clarify for us, please? Yeah. What do you mean by God in evil? Right. Remember, in the context of God is. It's a kind of spiritual emptiness or spiritual barrenness. I'm doing all of these things for God, but how come I don't feel God? It's like I'm. I believe in God. I believe there is God. I believe that the reason behind why I'm helping the poor is because of God. But how come for me personally, I don't feel God? So there are two ways you can look at that. On the one hand, of course, there are certain times where we will feel God's absence and there could be parishes. One example I can think of, but I'm not saying this is always the reason, is remember how when we were growing up, I don't know if you've had this experience where your parents would bring you to the park and then at some point your parents would just let you venture off and play wherever, and then your parent would be far away but still kind of watching you. And at some point you're like a little scared. It's just that at least this is what my friends do for parents. They let the kid venture off so that the kid will learn how to, you know, move around more independently. But that can be scary. But sometimes you need that moment of absence as opposed to hovering so that we can. You can learn to do things more on your own. You can say that on the one hand, there will be times where we truly feel God's absence for various reasons. But on the other hand, and this is more my direct answer to you, Eliz, I think there are times where we also have to widen our expectations about how we feel God. We may not feel God, but way that we felt him when we went through the days with the Lord, He. But maybe the Lord is communicating to us in different ways that we might not be expecting or we might not be conscious about. So that can account for the God forsaken us. So my simple answer is really that what do we mean by God forsaken us? It's the absence of God. And while there are times that God could be, could feel that he's absent even if he's only not, the challenge for us is to widen our expectations of how God may show conception. Who else? Yeah. Anything else? Yeah.\
Speaker C: Is it more of the nature?\
Speaker A: I think it's both to some extent. Because there are certain situations, there are certain situations that really call for a solution. So like the example I gave you back then, if you are looking for tents for an art project, you really have to look for the tents. So because that will of the situation calls for, I'll treat it as a problem that I have to solve. But the certain, but the problem is when certain situations don't call for a clear cut solution. They call you to be more present. They call you to, you know, be more open. The problem is when you treat that like a problem that makes sense. So for example, if you were in a relationship with someone and you're good, you approach that person like I have to figure this person out, That I think becomes wrong. So see, the problem happens both in terms of the situation and in terms of your discipline. And we have to be careful when we take the disposition of problem solving to something that is not really a problem solving.\
Speaker B: I don't know if this question makes sense, but how can God coexist in us? Like you talked about, like the communion where it communes with our being. So like, how does, how can that be observed or practiced?\
Speaker A: Because remember what I said about God's non competitive nature. God is existence in and of itself. And we share in the act of existence, but we do so in a limited way. You see, if God is existence itself and you exist as a person, how can that populate? In some sense you are an offshoot of existence itself, but in a limited way. Are there any questions? Yes.\
Speaker C: Paradoxes and complements.\
Speaker A: So it's two things. They're seemingly contradictory, but then they go together. They express a richer truth. So that was, that was the class where I talked to you about my Duterte supporting best friend, where even if I totally disagree with his Political stance. And I think he's wrong in that sense. I still don't think he's the kindest Muslim person I know because that's the whole point of reality. They don't perfectly fit the way that we want them to be or the way that we perceive them. Order and chaos is precisely that example.\
Speaker B: Right.\
Speaker A: But in order for me to live a well balanced life, there has to be some sense of order. But the order has to also know how to adjust the fields. So it's complementarity and paradox. I think people, we all have to develop an allergy to purity when things are always so clear cut. I mean, sometimes things are lightweight, but not all the time. The world leadership. Yeah, right.\
Speaker B: While on the topic of paradoxes, what about the question of can God create a rock that's too heavy for him to live? Because isn't that also a paradox?\
Speaker A: Well, no, that's one. Well, that is one of the old questions about God. And the answer to that is simple. God cannot do anything that negates his own power because that's a philosophical contradiction. Right. If God really in principle can't do something to limit his own power because that's his nature. Right.\
Speaker B: How does fashion as a desire if you're interact with your own? And how does this desire for passion and your desire, happiness also coexist with each other?\
Speaker A: Sorry, yeah, go ahead, go ahead.\
Speaker B: Like for example, like you have a desire for passion and how does this connect with your ego and like what Satan ego is? And does this desire for your passion\
Speaker A: impact your ability really be happy? Can you define what you mean by passion?\
Speaker B: By passion like you decide desire, it's like your desire to experience stuff that would be fulfilling for you and people feeling for your. And how does that, like how does\
Speaker A: your ego play a role and how\
Speaker B: you're able to come into this desire?\
Speaker A: I guess.\
Speaker B: And how does like your happiness also play a role?\
Speaker A: You see, everybody, there's something about desire that's quite egocentric. I fulfill certain desires so that I can feel more like myself. If I had more time, I would have explained something like this. That our desires always remind us of our existential lack or our existential incompleteness. Our desires remind us about how very fragmented we really are. You know, how we always tell people, you know, you have to be more whole as a person. But the presence of our desires always reminds us that we can't be perfectly whole because there's always something that we try to fill in. Now where does desire or where does passion come in here? Passion I think is an option of that desire. Passion is something that drives me to fulfill something so that I can feel more fulfilled as a person. It becomes dangerous when our ego becomes the ultimate own saver of why we do it. Because you know what? That makes you a kid. You cannot blame a toddler for being egocentric. You can't accuse a toddler for saying you're too selfish because they're still trying to developmentally grow and realize that life is more significant than just their own confidence. As important as you grew up, you have to realize that life is bigger than just me now. Please note the same mean you have to therefore be a people pleaser and you will take care of everything else but yourself because that's also an imbalance. And that's an imbalance that often happens because we're taught to only care for others and not ourselves. But if you go back to the gospels, remember how Jesus said, love God above all else with all your heart, with all your mind, with all your soul. What did he say about loving your neighbor? To love your neighbor as. Well? I mean, no, it's love your neighbor as yourself. Think about that. Love your neighbor as yourself. If I don't truly love myself, can I really love my neighbor? Because if I don't truly love myself, what's going to happen there is. My love for neighbor is actually just an ego project. What I do for you is really just people pleasing because people pleasing is that it's me proving to you that I'm lovable because I can love myself. So I'm using you as an object to make me more fulfilled as a person. It's using egocentism. But see, think about that. Love your neighbor as yourself. If I'm able to love myself well, I can then extend myself to my neighbor well. And if I love my neighbor well in a very secure way, I actually also love myself more. It's a continual, right? I. I hope I was able to answer your question, Kenji. But see, so that's what it means, passion. We have to be careful with the egocentrism that comes with passion. It's not bad in and of itself. Passion can direct you to be more outward. But if we don't tame it properly, it can certainly just be.\
Speaker B: Is God always loving?\
Speaker C: Trust smart us for the central concepts. For the oral, for example, we get faith. Are we able to describe what faith is without prior describing what the secret is?\
Speaker A: In principle you can, you can. But at some point you have to touch on the secret a little bit. Because the secret of the PQ series. God, that's crazy. Before I call Shadow anyone else who probably McGuire. Would be next question. No, but it's true, Right? But I try to think God into an idol. Perfectionism is about control, remember? So my God could be form of perfectionism.\
Speaker B: Is God always loving?\
Speaker A: Yes. Ask me why. Why? Because the fact that you and I still exist goes to show that God shares the gift of existence. I will see you during your midterms. Good luck. I know you will do at least squeak. Practice, practice, practice.\
Speaker B: Good luck.\
Speaker A: Good luck in your midtown.}