{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Speaker A: When I was younger, our goal was always full of laughter and joy. It was only summer friends who brought back to school. As we live so close to campus, are able to stay longer than expected. The house was ready, quiet. There was Dr. Echoing out the hallways over Dr. God's Taking Music and the footsteps of the younger doctor at the time, some was not ordinary, almost unsettled. I didn't see it as something special. It's not as something that would always be there to pass. I often took it for granted. There were moments where I would hide in my room because I didn't feel like frequent visitors. I would reluctantly busy just to avoid small bumps. My people would gather interruptions to my space rather than spirits. I assumed there would always be another dinner, another holiday. On other random afternoons, once in chatter never imagined that one day the house would go. But over the past year, as I entered college, everything began to shift. Many of my best friends move abroad are half a dollar to survive. My cousins and relatives relocated or surveilled. And my grandparents now older and more fragile and no longer disabled. At the same time, Transitioning into college life makes me busier than I expected. I have longer days, happier responsibilities. And it was enough time that I began to understand what I have lost and what I have failed to appreciate. After I watch escape from this very different. I realize that what makes my life worth living are those simple moments cars, the latest laughter conversations of scratch date include. It is not always about the individual milestones that make my life moving, but rather any small pieces of joy which I improve everyday living stuck in my face. The noise that once overwhelmed me now feels precious because it reminds me that I was rationalized. Now, whenever the house feels her laughter again, even briefly, I find myself and I realized that what I do belong for the future is not successful in the sentence the permanent joy. A quote I came across before was this. You can kiss your family and friends goodbye and go miles to see you. At the same time you carry them with you. Because you've not just lived in a\
Speaker B: world, but a world that's true.\
Speaker A: It made me realize that even if people move away and have closer to different directions to walk up close, moments will always remain true. If change is inevitable and distance is unavoidable, what gives life meaning? Making our effort to make room for joy again, My life feels worth living in those quiet time moments of.\
Speaker B: Thank you so much. I resonated with that. Especially because the way that you describe your household is the way I would like to describe my own household. Oh well, that was my household in the past, and I hope that continues to be that way to the future, where your place becomes a gathering point for all sorts of people. And even if we go through various changes in the way that our lives are lived, I think the whole point is to find joy in whatever configuration of life we find ourselves in. Just one last thing for everybody. I know that a number of you might be looking through your meetings now, through your laptops and your devices, and I guess the only thing is that, please, when somebody's beginning their reflection, I think that's the time it shows them. Especially because a person is using the reflection as a chance to share about their life. And I think it's just an appropriate sign of respect to set aside our readings, our notes, advices, so we can listen to somebody who's sharing their lives with us. So I hope for those who have their laptops on, let's just refrain from doing that.\
Speaker C: No, I forgot to bring it. I didn't know there would be a.\
Speaker A: J.\
Speaker B: Sam, As you prepare. Sorry. Just one last, last note I wanted to say about the last place any of you use the word balance, a balance of strength, spirituality and religion. And my comment, there is a balance is used when you're dealing with two contrast paintings, right? So, for example, work and play. Of course, the more that you work, the less that you have plan for play and vice versa. Although of course, I know you can argue, but those are two pure contrasts. Whereas spirituality and religion are not contrasts. They supplement each other. In fact, that was the whole point of the answer, right? So that spirituality becomes grounded in a religion and a religion becomes more personal for someone because of spirituality. So that's why, when you've ever used the word balance in a way that's very critical to your point, I had to point that out. But anyway, for those of you who use that word, the tendency was that you had a good answer. Anyway, I just have to kind of point that out to show you the spirituality and religion are not really a value. You may use that side for your scratch. On. But please make sure that your answer is on the opposite side of your personal details. Please make sure you have nothing else on your. On your table except your writing instruments and your paper. You may share correction as well as the correction taken between you and the person next to. You can move over there, please.\
Speaker C: Oh, sorry.\
Speaker B: Oh, Okay. Please don't forget. Eight lines. One question of Christianity. For lots of people who can do this, I think this is a very manageable question. What's it called? And what is. Those? You're having a hard time. The true is the answer is already on the prompt. Or one of the keywords. The answer is already in the problem. Now. Do you last four minutes? Four minute point, Halfway point. It's. Three. Two. Stop writing. One. The answer is the dark knight of the soul. The dark knight of the soul. I just said darkness.\
Speaker C: I said the dark knight of the soul. And I said much of sickness. What is the answer? Dark night of the soul. It's like we're in deeper straight away from like God abandoned them. Wait, I answered that. I didn't say dark night of the soul.\
Speaker B: But that's like the exact wording.\
Speaker C: Thank you for like the Messiah. Like the Messiah wouldn't come to them.\
Speaker B: What is your answer? So, yes, experiential atheism. Experiential atheism, which is that feeling of abandonment and God's forsakeness that when you thought that God doesn't like you believe in God up here, but then you don't experience God or you don't see God in your experience. And yet somehow that experience of God forsakeness didn't deter their faith. Might have even deepened their strength when\
Speaker C: I said those words.\
Speaker B: Okay everyone, before we proceed to our class, I do have to go through the announcements with you just because there's a lot of things we have to align as far as class Peru management are concerned, okay? So please pardon me, it will be a while after the I give you some announcements. I will talk to you about the midterms. And so everyone, my only appeal is this, please listen because if you miss a detail it might not go well for you. So this is so left to the street. At the rate of course will said on campus, please don't forget that we will no longer have on a Wednesday makeup class just because of concerns. I'm very sorry about that and so you don't have to worry about anything, okay? But I am going to teach from 7 to 9pm online for those who need to make up for their absences. Because I did promise that attendance is in the makeup class would cancel out new absences. So if you don't have any absences, then of course you don't have to attend this at all. But what I will do is that after this class I will send a recording of this class so that you get for those of you who didn't attend it, you can still go through and record the midterms. Because what I will discuss is still very much part of the midterm. Examination. But for most of you, however, it will just come as a synchronous content. But for those who need to make up for their absences, you'll be attending that class so that it will catch me. That will be this Wednesday, 7 to 9pm Then the sign ups for the oral exam will be also on Wednesday. And it will be at the third floor of Telecomsta hall where you find the theology department. Do you remember where the Filipino department is? So it's on the same floor as the Filipino department. It's on the same floor as the Filipino department. It's just that it's at the end. Okay. And you will find the sign up sheets in the bulletin board. On the bulletin board in front of the department. Please sign up only for your pair. I repeat, sign up only for your pair. I've seen that happen and it's quite unfair that you have one person signing up for the whole class. So please just sign up for your own fair. As I mentioned here. Although I wish I didn't have to. But just to be sure, please know that I'm putting the sign up sheets in front of a place where it's going to be monitored by cctv. So please, please, please. I really come to your honesty. Were you able to see the soft copy of the sign of the sign of sheets? Yes, sorry. I was supposed to have oral exams on March 14, Saturday. But then I rent Saturday, so I moved that instead on Monday. So March 16, Monday where we're supposed to have class. Move a lot of the things, people. Sorry, There are a lot of details here. Okay, so sign ups this Wednesday then the midterms themselves, don't forget, will be between March 9 to 16. You will not have class during this period. Please do start finding a partner for this exam. You are 27 in this class, so there are 12 pairs. But then one. Leo and I will leave it to you to decide who that trio is. Just make sure that there's one. And if you decide to be the trio. And I'll just ask Keith about who the trio is, what the consensus is. You don't have to sign up if you're the trio. Because your oral exam is already designated to be on Friday night of that week. So not March 13th. Okay, I think that's 6pm. Just have to make away with that. I mean, talk to the pair about their. I'll talk to the pod. Okay, so anyways, that's just for the now. Okay. Are there any questions then? I think. Yes, sir.\
Speaker C: Yeah, I think we have a math\
Speaker B: Long test on that? Yes. I was just told. So if you have a departmental math long test on March 13 in the evening, just make sure that you do not sign up for an oral exam at the time. The only thing I said about how your oral exam is already scheduled is already predetermined, is only if you are the trio. And so whoever the trio is, I will just talk to them. And if they can't do it on March 13, then they'll just figure out another. Okay, but that's only if you are the trio. I own two if you are. Yes, sir. It's going to be for everybody. For all my. For all my classes. Yes.\
Speaker A: During the oral exam.\
Speaker B: Okay. I'll talk about the mechanics of the oral examiner. Short. Anything else is the same in the\
Speaker A: context of the assemblage.\
Speaker B: Yes. In other words, those who need to make up for their absences will simply be with me as I record asynchronous content. Anything else? So when will we return to class? Then we will return. Okay, so we are still meeting this Thursday. Please take note. We're still meeting this Thursday, but after that, Thursday is March 5th. After that, our next meeting will be on March 19th. So we won't be meeting for two weeks after that. But then you see, everybody, since it is March, this is the beginning of a very special month for me. March is my birth month. And what I normally do on my birth month is that I would often deliver a special birthday lecture. What that lecture is about is about growing up and adulting and trying to navigate through new environments. So I have something special when we do come back on March 19th. If you have friends who you'd like to invite to sit in, you may invite them to sit in as well. So anyway, I guess that's just our way to kind of ease our way back into EO Hack. Now, on to what I was asked to me a while ago by Eunice or Elise. I forgot. Let me now go into the midterm exam guidelines. Take note that these are already in appendix eight of the syllabus. But I just want to emphasize that few points. Okay, what is the point of the midterm? This. The objective is for the students to demonstrate their understanding of the first half of the course by making connections, making one class concept to the other. So, of course, part of the exam is to define concepts. But remember, that's just the first part. The whole point is for you to make connections and to begin to reflect and to deepen your understanding of the course. So, please, I want us to remove this impression that this theology class is all about just remembering the stuff you said. No, no, no, that's just the first part. But then I want you to think and to synthesize more independently because indeed, this exam aims to help you develop the skill of synthetic thinking, which will enable you to see the course as one coherent whole rather than just fixate on some whole advice. What does that mean? Synthetic thinking refers to the ability to see connections between ideas, phenomena and events in order to perceive a larger complex world. So remember, don't lose sight of the bigger picture. We are not just interested in the details. It's all about big picture data. Now this oral exam, as you know, will be done in pairs and a trio will be forming classes with an odd number of students like us. Now please pay attention to this next one very, very important because each pair is expected to be at the third floor faculty lounge of Horatio de la Costa hall. That's the venue. 3rd Floor Faculty Lounge of Horatio de la Costo hall. Not with the Taft. 20 minutes before your exam for the official preparation. And official preparation will involve the following. First it's depositing all your bags, gadgets and notes in the oral exam room. It means knowing the card corresponding to your exam matter involves writing your outline. So if your exam is scheduled at 9, please be at the venue before 8:40. You are late at 8:40 and one second. So please, you have to be there 20 minutes or more before your slot because there's the preparation period. Obviously there's the unofficial preparation period, which is your independent review of your study. But the official Preparation will be 20 minutes before you examine. I must stress this, it's happened before. It's happened sadly, quite late. Handful of times that students miss their preparation period. If you do, it will not deduct your score, but you will have a difficult time doing the oral exam if you're coming in unprepared to go through this time of settling down. Because remember, for most, if not all of you, this would be your first oral examination in college. And I know how nerve wracking that can be. So this official preparation is meant to calm you down so that you can come and prepare. So next, students will be given a list of class concepts under each of the modules tackled prior to the midterms. I think I'll be able to post this tonight. So each student will be given a concept and the pair is supposed to explain the connection between the concepts we received. The concept to be examined will be determined by drawing from a set of face down Cards. So just to give you an idea of what that sheet looks like, let me show you the one that I used last year, which will also likely be what I will use for this year. So see, if you. If I just kind of zoom in. So set one will have five concepts, all of which you study. Correct. Set two, five concepts, two, all of which you study. And set three concepts, all of which you'll study, except maybe these last two, which I'm going to discuss in the following sessions. Right, so see, so what's going to happen is as you pick cards at the end, each person will have one assigned concept to them. And then you will have to connect that to your partner's concept, whatever that concept might be. Okay, now I will say a little bit more. So take note. Once the cards have been drawn, each pair will have 15 to 20 minutes to prepare for the exam with no notes. At the designated venue near the oral exam, you'll be given a pencil and a small index card on which you will write an outline to guide your presentation. So you won't come in with nothing. You will have that little index card. The students should be ready at the 15 minute mark to present. Once called, the pair or trio proceeds the oral exam room. If a pair or trio fails to be complete, then call. They forfeit their prep period. So please take note of this. If let's say you are there 20 minutes before your exam, but your partner is not, your prep period has not yet begun. So make sure you and your partner are there during your prep period. So am I making sense so far? Now, when we pick cards, there will be two draws. So how will the cards be drawn? First draw and a second draw. So the first draw will determine your concept set. Is it set one, set two or three? Then the second draw will determine which concept within your chosen set you will discuss. Is it concept 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5? As you saw, right? Example. If you draw a two card on the first row, that means you'll lose set two. Then if you draw a four card on the second row, that means you'll notice fourth concept, which is the concept of fake. And that's how you'll get your concept. Is that you. Okay, okay, hold on. Before I answer questions, I'll just go through everything first. If you do have questions, just take note of them so that I can address them a little later. Now, other than those cards, I'm going to add two more cards per draw. You will have the joker card or the king cards. Okay, so what happens if you take the joker card. That means you can choose any set or concept you want. So let's say in the first draw you got the joker, you can choose your set. In the second draw, if you got the joker again, you can choose any concept. And some people have become very lucky enough to get that. What happens if you you get the king card? I will choose to center the concept. Now, here we go. Allow me to announce the first part of the perfect attendance incentive. Because as I said, this incentive will come out every major assessment I'm doing this. So what is perfect attendance incentive? Number one, you will skip the first draw and you can already choose which concept set you will discuss. Alright, if you. If you're better at. If you're more confident in set one, then choose one, two or three. Then that's not all. For the second draw, you will draw three cards and you will choose your concept from among those three. Right? So you will not just draw once, you draw thrice and then choose one from the theme. So congratulations. If you have the perfect, then the exam will be 20 minutes long for pairs. Okay. And then I think 25. For the three minutes, each pair will present their answer for no less than 12 minutes and no more than 15 minutes. The last five minutes, five to eight minutes will be for questions and topics. Now everyone, what I am about to say. I know might be a little shocking at first, but please just trust me. This is very, very doable. And the reason why I'm implementing this guideline is just because I want to teach you the importance of being focused with your explanations. Not be too short. Happens with a lot of examinees. And their explanations tend to be very brief and are not comprehensive. So take note. This is for the pair no less than 12 minutes, right? If you go under 12 minutes, that's already an F. If you go under 12 minutes, it's already an F. If you Go more than 15 minutes, well, you can't. Because when the 15 minute mark hits, I'll just tell you to stop. And that will not affect your grade. Do we. Will there be a timer? Yes. So you will know if you're about to approach the 12 minute point. And you will know if you're about to hit the 15 minute point. So you will know. Go for it. But please just take note that you and your partner have to prepare for at least a 12 minute explanation. Then while this exam will be done in either pairs or trios, the agreements will be individual. So for example, if in a 12 minute explanation, your partner explained for 11 minutes and you only explained for one minute. Your partner obviously will get the better grade. So this is. Don't worry, it's not a. You know, your grades will be affected if your partner doesn't do well. Although, of course, I encourage you to make sure that your partner does well too. Because if your partner succeeds, you will also succeed. Then the results of the exam will be posted on Canvas A post a week after the last grade exams. So everyone, I really have to emphasize, please be at the venue 20 minutes before your slot. Okay. And prepare an explanation that takes at least 12 minutes. Okay, I'll entertain questions now. So, Morris, just go ahead.\
Speaker C: When drawing the cards, you will draw one and your partner will also draw another.\
Speaker B: Well, the way we'll do it is something like this. So partner A, let's see. Your partner, you will draw the cards first, both the first draw and the second draw. And once you draw those, once you draw twice, then you'll already have your concept after you're done, then your partner is going to do the two draws as well. My only thing I really ask everyone is please do not take too long in designing because, oh, my God, that can really annoying sometimes. It gets annoying all the time when somebody gets the joker card and then that person's going to be like, oh, my God, I can't decide. And then it's been one minute. You will have at most 15 seconds to decide. If you haven't decided in 15, I'll choose for you. Okay? So please make sure everybody, especially if you have the perfect 2000 incentive that you can. That you've already decided more or less what concept you want to get. Okay, Louie, what happens if my. If I have the perfect attendance incentive and my partner doesn't? In those cases, we let your partner pick first and then you can choose whatever is next.\
Speaker A: What if we both have the perfect attendance merit?\
Speaker B: Can we choose at the same time and decide so we can then kind\
Speaker A: of match our concepts?\
Speaker B: Probably not. What I would suggest you would do instead is that you and your partner can plan that beforehand. Like have a contingency that, for example, you and I. Okay, you can say, I will. I want a concept of faith. And then Ann will go like, okay, I'll do perfectionism. And then just prepare your contingencies ahead of time. So I would suggest you do your planning. Let's call that planning before you draw your cards. Oh, should be there when you. Okay, yeah, should be there. The one when you draw. Okay, sorry, Alec. And then guy.\
Speaker C: Alec, I was just making sure\
Speaker B: you'll\
Speaker C: have the List of sets and concepts given who else?\
Speaker B: Before the oral exam. Of course, of course. Kai, sorry, did so many years earlier. So Kai, Elise and then Morris.\
Speaker C: With regard to the perfect attendance incentive, again, when drawing the cards, if you and your partner both draw from the same set, will. Will there be a reason?\
Speaker B: Ah, well, you can, because that's the thing. You and your partner beforehand have to decide which set you will take. So going back to my earlier example of if both of them have the perfect attendance incentive, they should already plan beforehand what set they'll take. So maybe Eve will decide I'll do set one and then Ann will do. I'll do set three. All right, so they have to plan that beforehand. So do take note everybody, that everyone has to choose from different sets. Yeah, you cannot choose from the same set. So if you both have the perfect attendance incentive, then please decide which set you will go, which set you will take. And they have to set and concept. Yeah, well, set, that's more definite. But the concept at least prepare for some contingencies. You want me to clarify what I mean? The set is more definite because you already. You are already using that of time. Remember it says here in this part, you will skip the first draw and you can already choose which concepts that you will discuss. So this, you can choose any Kalaga. This, it just makes your chances of getting the concept you want a little better. But technically it's not definite. Not as definite as this makes sense.\
Speaker A: Yes, when we talk to the partner.\
Speaker B: That's right. You hear your question? Oh yeah, I think that's up to you because one way you can do it is. Yeah, as you said, one person can talk for six minutes straight and the other can talk for another six minutes straight. That's okay, as long as you are able to connect to her concept as well and connect to other concepts too. In fact, listen up everybody. The more concepts that you connect to, the better. But please make sure that you spend a whole lot of time first connecting to your original to. So for example, if Elise and Eunice choose, let's say perfectionism and faith, they have to spend a substantial amount of time connecting those two concepts first. And then if I'm sure they'll still have more time if they can connect it to other concepts and even connect it to the readings, that really will increase the quality of the score. So puenting ganon. But you can also divide it in other ways. For example, if you want to do two minutes each, as you said, if you're more comfortable doing that, that's okay. So when it comes to how you're going to actually present, I'm giving you the liberty to choose how you do it. Just please make sure it's not weird. Like, for example, you're going to be like one word each. Our presentation is going to be a little weird. So do it within reason. So there. Does it have to be conversational? Just make sure it's not. It doesn't really have to be a skit. Again, it's mentioned. So let's say, for example, Heather and Al are paired. And then the beginning, when the timer hits, Heather's going to be like. So, Al, how was your day today? I don't know. I mean, I don't know. I'm feeling a little perfectionistic today. Oh, what's perfectionism? Oh, that's very simple. You know, perfectionism doesn't have to be like that. Okay. Doesn't have to be a skit. My rule of thumb is that this oral exam is sort of like the in between of a thesis defense and a lunch conversation. So it's not as formal as a thesis defense where, you know, you're all very stiff and whatever, but it's not so as informal as a lunch conversation where it has no stop for. You know what I mean? So try to gauge in between. And you don't have to talk to each other. You can both talk to me. I mean, it's not an issue. Anything else? Sorry, I think, Boris, you have another question. All right. Any other questions? Yeah.\
Speaker C: Do we need to define the concepts first?\
Speaker B: Absolutely. That's the first thing you gotta do. And once you establish that, then you can start making connections. I guess a lot of people, quite frankly, maybe when you. They get this impression that theology is just about memorizing terms because they can't go beyond the first part. As I told you. Yes, the terms and the definitions are important, but only at the beginning. But once you've established that I am expecting more, I'm expecting more independent one. So, for example, if you just gave me what I thought would intervene, not going to be very good. It's probably a C at best. But I want to see how you think. I want to see how you make connections. Yes, Al, go ahead. But, you know, as I mentioned a while ago, you have to start my first making connections to your new concept. So, Roman, you got perfectionism and Heather got faith. So maybe I would suggest spend the first three to four minutes defining and connecting those new persons, and then you can spend the rest of the time bringing in other things. So if you want to talk more. A bit. You want to talk more about the six paths, then you can put that in there. If you want to put more bug fiction eps and you can put that in there. But just make sure that the first two concepts have been properly established before you add one. Yeah, yeah. I mean, I have no problems with code switching. Just make sure that you have a dominant language. Okay. Welcome. My name is Super Konyo. Where predominantly English or so, I mean, if it's English with sprinkles of Tagalog, that's fine. If it's Tagalog with sprinkles of English, that's fine. As long as you have a dominant language, that's parameters when it comes to college. Anything else, people? Sorry, I'm really opening it for questions because I want to make sure we're clear about these guidelines. There are many details, so I hope that they're all clear about.\
Speaker C: Are we allowed to write down on the card mid.\
Speaker B: Note taking? Please just take note that I. I advise against it just because I want you to really listen to your partner. But I mean, if you do it, I mean, I'm not gonna take it against you in terms of phrase or whatever. I would just advise that you listen to your partner. Amid your writing. You might not be listening to what your partner saying. I would advise against it, but if you. You do it, there's nothing wrong. Yeah, maybe like primarily how we understand\
Speaker C: or like\
Speaker B: our definition.\
Speaker C: For example, we hire partners and we\
Speaker B: go through our definition. But I feel like his definition is\
Speaker C: lacking a little bit.\
Speaker B: Why? Yeah, sure. So I mean, if you do that, that's great and that will help Kobe. But that's more a point for you. Yes, sir.\
Speaker C: Will there be duplicates in the deck? Like, will it be possible?\
Speaker B: Okay.\
Speaker A: Anything more?\
Speaker B: Everyone? Yes. Yes, ma'. Am. Everyone. Sorry, let's just.\
Speaker A: How do we know if we have peric attendant?\
Speaker B: I'll be posting a list of people with perfect attendance by the end of this. Okay. No, that it can do anything. Just as a tip, the more that you include insights from the meetings, I think that would also be really good. That can heighten up your scores. The lectures, of course, are your basic. But then of course, if you add the readings, it's really going to bring your answer up there. Okay. Yes.\
Speaker A: The average grade, would you say?\
Speaker B: But that's the average. The goal is for me to see how well you connect your concepts together, how well you have a sense of the.\
Speaker C: So like, if you talk about it.\
Speaker B: Perfectionism. Everyone, as I told you on our first day, everything you need to know about the courses on the syllabus, which includes arts. So please take note of what exactly, how, exactly you're going to be graded, but for everyone's benefit. Now, just to remind you, remember that this exam is going to be out of 20 points. Eight points for how many uses sources, which includes your readings and the lectures. Eight points for the quality of your insight, how well you're able to connect concepts together, and 4 points for clarity. So 8 +8 +8. 8 +8 +4 is 20 divided by 5. That's going to be your GPI score. So if, let's say you get a score of 15 out of 20, 15 divided by 25 is P is in letter 3B. Everyone, I really just want to emphasize this before I call time, please, you cannot study for an oral exam of your own. You have to practice, practice, practice. I would say have a deck of cards, synchrony how you do the order and practice explaining things and critique each other. Okay. For example, if Duck and CJ are going to be partners, CJ can be like Dak. You might want to improve how you flow your ideas here because I think you get stuck on this point. Yeah, they coach each other. I think that's also really important. Practice, practice, practice. That's the key here. If you simply absorb your notes but you don't practice, you might not do as well. You might not even do well at one.\
Speaker C: Are we required to use all of our draws or. No, because let's say you draw one card and you already like the topic there. You have to use the other draws.\
Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, if you're happy with your first swimming out and you can draw thrice if you're happy with your first one.\
Speaker C: Because if you get a king, look, it's like imagine.\
Speaker B: Yeah, we get much higher.\
Speaker C: So if you get a king, you\
Speaker B: can choose two more. Okay. Okay.\
Speaker A: Okay.\
Speaker B: Cleared up. Much higher.\
Speaker C: When do you want to do this?\
Speaker B: You think you do it the weekend before?\
Speaker C: So like this weekend? No, that's next. I like, like the weekend before. This is Dexide. Yeah. The weekend before is Dexai Wednesday, like 18. So you think. Or do you think we could do this Saturday and like selling just so it's not like information overloading in the.\
Speaker B: Like. Right.\
Speaker C: Like basic.\
Speaker B: I want to commend everybody. Nobody cut the day. So give yourself grand. Yay. I hope that everyone here will. Everyone here understands what the midterm exam expects, because we're all here. Theology 11 faith spirituality in the church where we are on our third model, revelation and Faith, where we are studying who God is, what God communicates and how we are to make sense of this communication. That's why it's called Revelation and Faith. From the Christian perspective, you have a God who communicates himself. And how are we to make sense of what God communicates? What is he communicating to begin with? And how do we. So in our last class we talked about God from an experiential angle, remember where in doing so we paid attention not so much to concepts about God as we did about our images of God, especially those that were formed throughout our lives, most powerfully in childhood. And I went through these four distorted images of God with you, the sick and forcer, the harsh parent and enabling parent, distant puppeteer. And he said that they're distorted precisely because of their lack of balance. They emphasize something that you can truly say about God, but then they exaggerated. So in the first two, yes, God has standards as to how we are to grow morally and spiritually, but not to the point where God becomes severe and harsh when we don't meet those standards. God of course respects our freedom, but not to the point that God becomes an enabler or God becomes distant to the point that he does not care about how we grow up as people. We also said that these images are distorted precisely because they tend to reflect egos more than they reflect who God really is. They might be reflecting somebody who hurt you in the context of of a religious event or a religious group, but they might not be. I'm pretty sure that if you studied philosophy in senior high school, you're probably familiar with this image or maybe you're not. But if, in case you're not, this is from book seven of Plato's Republic where he gives us an analogy about people who are stuck in a cave, right? They've not known anything other than what's inside the cave. And the way that these people learn about the world is through shadowy images of shadowy puppet images that are illuminated by fire. So instead of them, let's see, having a direct experience of a base or a horse or anything outside of the cave, they get learn about it in some imperfect way through the shadows that depict them. The whole point of education according to Plato is for us to move beyond these shadowy images of the world and to really see the world for us as it really is. And I wonder if it's the same when it comes to God, that God is always beyond His. Sorry for the period beyond these shadowy ego driven images. I wonder if that's the invitation, after having learned about how God is imaged through our experiences, that God always goes beyond whatever image we have of this God. And maybe that's what faith is about. It's enabled us to grow out of these images, especially if they tend to be distorted. So that ends that part. So now we move into a more philosophical way of talking about God. And here I want us to explicitly talk about what exactly we mean when we say God. Are we talking about evil space creature? Are we talking about a mythological figure? Are we talking about a children's fairy tale character like Santa Claus? When you're talking about God, are you talking about something like the Flying Spaghetti Monster, which is some mythical creature created just very recently that's supposed to be floating somewhere up in space, but somehow exists as some entity in the universe, right? So I know this might be weird for me to ask, but is God somewhere floating in space? When we see everybody, especially if we take a more atheistic perspective and we ask the question like this, I think we're really not asking the right question, right? Because when you're asking if God is floating somewhere in space, you're actually looking for an object, an object that you can clearly define, like a planet or an asteroid or a star. Let me put it in this way. Imagine that you're a fish. Who cares? Been a fish before. Obviously you're. But imagine if you were a fish and you are setting. You're on a journey to find the greatest fish that ever existed. It's the, I don't know, the green rainbow shark, whatever that is, right? That you shoot lasers from it at its eyes or whatever. A lot of us think that finding God is sort of like a fish looking for the greatest, most powerful fish ever. But it's not so much that looking for God is not like a fish looking for the greatest fish ever, then it's being open to an awareness of the fish being involved, right? Because now, I know this is a very limited analogy, but look at it this way. If a fish only really understands things in terms of what it looks like, right? If a fish only thinks in terms of fish, like everything is perceived as fish. God is not in the category of fish. God is somewhere outside of the way that this fish thinks. So I think it's going to be a theme throughout our discussion here that if you're looking for God, if we're trying to understand what exactly we mean by God, we have to get out of thinking that God is just some grand object existing in time and space. I'll Say that again. We have to avoid thinking that God is just this grand object existing in time and space, or occupying some time in space. Which is why I'm now going to give you the principles which we will have to carry throughout this discovery. Now, everyone, very important, you and me, God is not being. God is not a being. So I know that we often refer to God as some sort of divine being. And I mean, I understand why most people would put it that way, but I mean, strictly speaking, when you are talking about God, you're really not talking about a being. How are we to define what a being means? And in order for me to show this to you, allow me to emphasize it in terms. In these terms, what exactly do we need? What exactly do we mean by being? And take note, being here is its one deep the word being refers to an existing thing or object in the universe that occupies time and space. An existing thing or object in the universe that occupies time. Time in space. Right. So Leila, as a being, is occupying this specific part of space, Right? Just the same as Genois, just the same as alcheries. Just the same as my laptop is. Now, I know I included the Latin translation of being, which is the word ends. Now, this will be crucial later, but just remember for now that when we are referring referring to a being, we're referring to ends. Ends Again, an existing thing or an object in the universe that occupies time. Talk to each other.\
Speaker C: Sapiens human beings. Sapiens human being. LB that's why I Glad you passes your lens broken.\
Speaker B: L. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.\
Speaker C: Wait, that's what's men's mb.\
Speaker B: Hands. Pb are you a p. Being?\
Speaker C: Why is God not a divine being? God is not a woman, but Ariana Grande. Ariana Grande is a woman. God is a woman.\
Speaker B: So don't forget people. And this is crucial to our discussion. God is not a being. If by being we mean a thing that exists in the universe that occupies that. Now, this is where the Bolivar evening will come in. So as you know that the heart of this reading talks about how Christianity actually is some form of atheism. But it's not atheism as we understand it now. It's the denial of the existence of God. Remember that in Christianity's early years they existed during the time of the Roman Empire, where religions then were very paganistic, right? They worship other gods or gods that were often associated with things that would occur in the world. So the thing about Hellenistic cultures like Rome and Greece is that they're very much intertwined. So if you remember your Greek gods, for example, off the top of your head, Greek gods. Give me some goats. Aphrodite, Hades, Zeus, Athena, Wells, Hades, Short Pokemon. Okay, so Hermes are Hermes. I would suppose. How would you. What's the Roman equivalent? So kermess is creed. The Roman equivalent is for the Roman name Mercury. Remember?\
Speaker A: That's why.\
Speaker B: You ever wonder when you put the Mercury?\
Speaker C: I thought I'll stay with the bag.\
Speaker B: Zoos anywhere. The list of Roman gods is Jupiter. Yeah, no, see the planet, the planets of the solar system are named after the mythological gods. Using the Roman Jupiter for Zeus. Poseidon is Neptune. Neptune. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Mercury, that's of course Hermes. Venus is Venus. What's Earth? Aphrodite. Aphrodite. Okay now if you remember, by the way, sorry, because I'm not familiar with the senior high curriculum or the junior high curriculum. I went to the old high school. Did you study Greek mythology? No. Grade school? Not. Okay, so we all learned it from Percy Jackson. So just from your casual knowledge of the Greek and Roman gods, what do you remember about life just from casual knowledge? They like to kill people. Sure, what else? Yes, they're very egotistical knowledge. They represent concepts. How can you elaborate with each by concepts? Ah, okay, so maybe the verb. Say they represent certain realities. Okay. Whether they're natural occurring or they involve human dynamics. Let's do it this way, like that. So starting from that cj, Heather and Kenji. And then I go, there's superpowers, human like characteristics. You have to appease them. That's right. Okay, now all of them, very much correct. Now I want you all to think this through again. This is an exercise in synthetic thinking. Okay? Do this with me. I want to bring back Polis point, which is each of these gods is associated with some kind of reality. Whether it's a naturally local in reality or something that comes from human interactions. So Zeus as the God of thunder, Poseidon the God of water, the sea, you have my favorite God, Dionysius, the God of wine and agriculture. I think also. Or maybe that's a different God. But anyway, I want you to put those two things together. On the one hand you, you have these gods who as you said, are very temperamental and egotistic. They kill people and on the other hand they're somehow associated with these realities. Thunder, war, wine, etc. Try to put those two things together. What do you think that means? What do you mean? Does it mean that these temperamental characters are associated with things or realities that happen in nature. What do you think that communicates about each other?\
Speaker C: I think there's like chaos. I think chaos and like cuz wine obviously there's chaos behind wine and other objects.\
Speaker B: Let me take a question one last time. How do you. Okay, so how do you relate from. How do you. What do you think is the connection between the fact that number one, the gods are so temperamental, egotistic and angry and. Okay, the fact that each of these gods are associated with something in nature. Disease, thunder, etc. So what do you think those two. How. How do you think those two things are related?\
Speaker C: I think like not everything is. Not everything is from good or will do good. I think they're an example of one of our projections of God of the distorted images. Because why would the Romans create a distorted image? Their projections, They are an over emphasis on traits. And they all have some certain characters loves whatever. There's a sense of perfectionism there. Because in a way each of these gods being related to something means that they're able to control them. And to control. They can control the meaning of it. Yeah, to have some perfection. And then here we have a projection of our egos and stuff. Being materialistic, these traits are like hyper emphasized by these gods which are then also projections of human stuff. Yes, yes. We have to go on about that for 12 minutes.\
Speaker B: I think we made it to like two.\
Speaker C: That's okay. To be fair, we connected pretty well for two.\
Speaker B: Yeah, yeah. Let's connect. LinkedIn. LinkedIn.\
Speaker C: I finally went on here beauty. Yeah, I'm going to. I'm going to request spam added a bunch of people. How many, how many connections do you have?\
Speaker B: 4. You know, I just realized when you were all talking, I told you this is an exercise in synthetic. If you know, especially for me majors, synthetic thinking is so important because remember you're thinking in terms of systems, right. How things are connected. So hopefully this is something that really exercises that part of you take off. So let's think, how are those two realities connected? The fact that they're always angry and that they're associated with nature.\
Speaker C: Yeah, I believe they're projections of the human nature. So basically they're what humans kind of view themselves as if they were a very good being. But also I think they're an excuse that humans created because they want to shift the blame rather than to themselves to place it into a being that cannot be controlled. But like let's say in war they'll be like oh, that was not caused by us, that was Caused by Aries.\
Speaker B: Okay.\
Speaker C: You can't do anything about it.\
Speaker B: So see, Alex paints quite a contrast here. Right. On the one hand, it talks about how human beings project their own traits onto their gods. Okay. And yet at the same time, doing that kind of enables them to escape responsibility for doing all of these bad things. That's an interesting contrast.\
Speaker C: I think there's also a sense of perfectionism here in the of sense that by giving each of these gods a certain traitor characteristic, we're trying to control those through these gods.\
Speaker B: Sorry, can you explain that last part?\
Speaker C: Because perfectionism is wanting a sense of control over something.\
Speaker B: And in this case, each of these\
Speaker C: traits or things assigned to each God is something that we're saying is controllable in a sense, either by those gods or through them.\
Speaker B: Okay. So maybe it's a reflection of the type of control we want to assume over nature and one of these other things or what else? Yes, I think it's an embodiment. A lot of these gods are like, you know, gods of natural phenomenon in the older times. People were more superstitious back then. And perhaps the reason why they have these very energetic personalities is that, you know, they see it at nature as, you know, something wild, something maybe not wild, but something uncontrollable, something beyond their grasp. Think about that. This was an attempt of Greek and Roman culture to embody or personify nature. Just think about it. Even us now, way past Greek and Roman mythology. I think all of us here understand that there's something about nature that's actually quite unstable. Right. Why am I here? The Greek gods, or simulating the Greek God speaking down the rare. Okay, so for example. Right. More or less. I know we can predict patterns in the weather, but in the end, we ultimately cannot predict when the next typhoon is going to hit and how bad it's going to hit. I mean, sure, we have the tools now, but back then we didn't have those tools. So how would we interpret it? Oh, wow. Maybe it's because Zeus is so pissed off at us. Right. Okay. We're going to go on some maritime voyage. We're going to sail the seas. So we have to make sure we offer something to the temple of Poseidon so that when we sail onto the seas, Poseidon will give us smooth seas. So see, we ever noticed that, that the gods or the Greek are assumed. The ego of the gods is the way that the Greeks and the Romans would try to explain the instability of nature. I'll say that again. The ego of the gods is the way that the Greeks and the Romans are trying to explain or express the instability of nature. That's the point that Bullman makes in the video, that the most true God transcends natural attributes and does not require a placement. So at the heart of Christian atheism, this is p. Everyone. The heart of Christian atheism is this whole idea that when Christians talk about God, God is now bound by nature. God is not bound by ego because God is not a being. That's the principle. Remember, God is not bound by egoistic whims like getting angry or, you know, having, you know, or feeling horny. The gods are feeling horny throughout a lot of their stories. Right? And God is also not bound by any natural configuration, whether a volcano erupts or typhoon hits. God transcends these things. And this is key this one of you said this, that from the Greek and Roman understanding, God has to be a peace. You have to give an offering so that you can manipulate God to do what you want. Right? But that's exactly what we're trying to avoid here. Because see, when you say that you cannot offer this in order that God will do this, you're actually trying to manipulate God. And what's happening in that context, you're actually more powerful than God. You're the real God in that picture. So the question is, everyone at this point is God exists? Yes. Now let's clarify and this is what the reading that atheists are right in saying that God does not atheists, because there is no evidence of God. This is true, there is no evidence of God. But here's where the problem lies. Quite often they refer to God as just one who are deeds or one more existing thing in the universe. See, the problem with the Greek gods, everyone is crucial. The problem with the Greek gods is that they really are just things. They're objects. You can call them super objects, you can call them super things. But in reality, they really are just things and objects that can be. Right. Entities that you can control and manipulate. But as you're going to see here, as you've already seen, when Christians talk about God, we're not talking about the thing because God is our being. So what then is God? I'll talk more about. Am I making sense? Yes.}